
Chapter 1: Standard Internetworking Models

Introduction
Whether you already work in the computer technology industry, or you are trying to enter the
field as a newcomer, it is important in this day and age to back up your resume with a vendorspecific certification. If you search job postings on the Internet, it is commonplace for hiring
companies today to require or recommend that an applicant have at least one vendor certification. Other companies ask that their current employees obtain certifications as a way to meet
goals for advancement. Regardless of the underlying reason, studying for the CCNA is a smart
move.
The CCNA certification was developed by Cisco to test your knowledge of networking at a
beginner’s level. Cisco wants to identify individuals capable of installing, configuring, and
maintaining small-scale networks, which include Local Area Networks (LANs) and Wide Area
Networks (WANs).
The purpose of this first chapter is to provide a general overview of the concepts that will ultimately be the foundation for the rest of this book. To start this chapter, the first step is to
define the term internetwork. It then reviews the general concepts that pertain to LAN and
WAN internetworks, as well as the Metropolitan Area Network (MAN), Storage Area
Network (SAN), and Virtual Private Network (VPN). Later chapters go into more detail
regarding the technologies that are related to both LAN and WAN.
This chapter also gives an in-depth look at the three networking reference models that are
likely to be tested on the CCNA exam. These are the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI),
Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP), and Cisco 3-Layer Hierarchical
models. Being familiar with these models is fundamental to understanding how networks operate, as well as how various devices and protocols fit into their structure. By using these models, you can design an infrastructure based on a given organization’s specific requirements.

What Is an Internetwork?
Simply put, an internetwork is the connection of more than one network. These networks are
linked together by an internetworking device to provide communication between the networks. Internetworks may also be referred to as an internet. Notice the lower case i at the
beginning of the word internet—this differentiates it from the Internet. The Internet is considered to be the largest internet in the world. I know the phrase sounds odd, but it is a great
example of how thousands of smaller networks are joined together to form one large global
internetwork. Another example of an internet would be the connection of individual LANs to
form a WAN.
The term internetworking signifies the industry, products, and processes that are required to
handle the challenges of network interoperability. Such issues can be quite complex because of
the existence of multiple vendors and protocols.

04_0789735199_CH01.qxd

11/30/05

12:43 PM

Page 13

13

Types of Internetworks

Types of Internetworks
There are various types of internetworks discussed in greater detail. I already mentioned LAN
and WANs, which are the most common types of internetworks. Other important internetworks include MANs, SANs, and VPNs, which are also reviewed in this section.

Local Area Network (LAN)
Like the name suggests, LANs are limited to a local or small geographical area. An example of
a LAN would be a network of individual computers or workstations that are connected in a
single department. These users have shared access to resources such as data and network
devices. Users on a LAN segment can share a network printer and communicate with one
another via email. Also, they are governed by one authoritative administrator.

NOTE
LAN is the smallest network in geographical size.

Given the size constraints, downsides of a LAN network are limited distance that data can
travel and a limited number of computers that can be connected. An upside of a LAN is fast
data transfer with data speed that can reach up to 10Gbps.
Xerox Corporation worked in collaboration with DEC and Intel to create ethernet, which is
the most pervasive LAN architecture used today. Ethernet has evolved and has seen significant improvements in regard to speed and efficiency.
Other significant LAN technologies are Fiber Distributed Data Interface (FDDI) and token
ring.

EXAM ALERT
An understanding of LAN technology is required for the CCNA exam. Each ethernet version is discussed
in detail in Chapter 3, “Data Link Networking Concepts.”

Local area networking uses switches, bridges and/or repeaters, and hubs to interconnect
LANs and increase overall size. Routers are used to connect a LAN to a WAN or MAN. Both
of these scenarios form an internetwork.



EXAM ALERT
Multiple LANs are interconnected with switches, bridges, or repeaters.
LANs are connected to a MAN or a WAN with a router.

Metropolitan Area Network (MAN)
A MAN is larger than a LAN but smaller than or equal in size to a WAN. Think of it as the
size of a city or college campus network, which can range anywhere from 5 to 50km in diameter. MANs are typically owned and managed by a single entity. This could be an ISP or
telecommunications company that sells its services to end-users in that metropolitan area. For
all intents and purposes, a MAN has the same characteristics as a WAN with distance constraints.

Wide Area Network (WAN)
WANs cover more than one geographical area. This is ideal for a company that has offices in
different cities around the country or even the world. Each office can connect to the other sites
in the WAN via a router. Connectivity from router to router is a circuit leased from a telephone or communications company, such as AT&T to name one. The larger the circuit a
company needs to transmit data, the more it costs to lease. The company also needs to pay
close attention to the performance of its WAN connection because that cost can directly
impact its ability to do business. It is important to keep an eye on the amount of traffic that is

04_0789735199_CH01.qxd

11/30/05

12:43 PM

Page 15

15

Types of Internetworks

going over each circuit to ensure that you have sufficient throughput. Throughput refers to the
amount of data transferred in a specified timeframe.

NOTE
Earlier I mentioned that the Internet is the perfect example of an internetwork. It is also an excellent example of a WAN network where thousands of small networks are joined together to form one large global network.

The following are WAN encapsulations that are reviewed in Chapter 15, “Wide Area
Networks”:
. Frame Relay
. PPP
. ISDN
. HDLC—Cisco standard

EXAM ALERT
WAN characteristics, protocols, services, and troubleshooting techniques are all possible exam topics.
Therefore, WAN technologies are discussed in length in Chapter 15.

Figure 1.2 provides an example of a WAN. In this example, a central router connects two
LANs to create the WAN. Each LAN has a switch connected to its local end-user devices.

Storage Area Network (SAN)
SAN may be referred to as a subnetwork or special purpose network. Its special purpose is to
allow users on a larger network to connect various data storage devices with clusters of data
servers. Cisco offers this service with its Cisco MDS 9000 Series Multilayer SAN Switches.
These switches provide scalable storage solutions for the end user.

Virtual Private Network (VPN)
VPN is a private network that can access public networks remotely. VPN uses encryption and
security protocols to retain privacy while it accesses outside resources. When employed on a
network, VPN enables an end user to create a virtual tunnel to a remote location. Typically,
telecommuters use VPN to log in to their company networks from home.



Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) Model
Objective:

Describe network communications using layered models
By now you understand the concept of an internetwork. Now the OSI model will help you see
just how an internetwork operates by using a layered architecture.
The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) created the OSI model as the first
major attempt to internetwork various vendor-specific networks, the ultimate goal being that
these different vendor networks could work together in harmony. This model consists of seven
layers. Although it is not widely used today, the terminology is prevalent in the networking
community. The OSI model may also be helpful when troubleshooting a network issue.
First of all, it is important to know the name of each layer and its corresponding layer number. This will help you remember where the layers reside in the OSI model. You may also hear
the layers referred to by number, so knowing them will also help in that respect. Table 1.1 provides a list of all seven layers.



Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) Model

TABLE 1.1

The Seven Layers of the OSI Model

Layer Number

Layer Name

7

Application

6

Presentation

5

Session

4

Transport

3

Network

2

Data Link

1

Physical

In general, each layer communicates with the adjacent layers on the OSI model and the corresponding layer on another system. For example, the Presentation layer communicates with
the Application layer, the Session layer, and also with the Presentation layer of another connected system.

EXAM ALERT
It is crucial that you learn the layers of the OSI model and their respective functions. Also know that
the OSI model helps with multi-vendor integration. The functions are reviewed in this chapter. For
now, to help you remember the names of the layers and their order, it may be helpful to come up with
a mnemonic device. The most commonly used phrase is “All People Seem To Need Data Processing.”
There are many other phrases out there, some of which are quite crass, but it is ultimately up to you to
decide whether this will help.

Upper Layers
Now that you know the layers in order, it is also important to know that the layers may also
be referred to as the upper and lower layers. Primarily, the upper layers of the OSI model define
communications between applications that reside on end-user stations. This is generally related to software communication. Table 1.2 provides a list of the layers considered as the upper
layers.
TABLE 1.2

The Upper Layers of the OSI Model = Applications

Layer Number

Layer Name

7

Application

6

Presentation

5

Session



Chapter 1: Standard Internetworking Models

Application Layer
Layer 7 provides an interface between a host’s communication software and any necessary
external applications (such as email, file transfers, and terminal emulation). This layer can also
evaluate what resources are necessary to communicate between two devices and determine
their availability.
Layer 7 also provides the following functionality:
. Synchronization of client/server applications
. Error control and data integrity between applications
. System-independent processes to a host

Table 1.3 provides a list of the protocols supported by the Application layer.

TABLE 1.3

Application Protocols Supported by the Application Layer

Application Protocols

Function

Telnet

A TCP/IP protocol that provides terminal emulation to a
remote host by creating a virtual terminal. Secure CRT is
one program that can be installed on a user computer to
create telnet sessions. This protocol requires authentication via a username and password.

Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)

Enables web browsing with the transmission of Hypertext
Markup Language (HTML) documents on the Internet.

Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTPS)

Enables secure web browsing. A secure connection is indicated when the URL begins with https:// or when there is a
lock symbol at the lower-right corner of the web page that
is being viewed.

File Transfer Protocol (FTP)

Enables a user to transfer files. Provides access to files
and directories. Securely implemented with telnet, which
allows remote authentication to an FTP server.

Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP)

A bare-bones version of FTP that does not provide access
to directories. With TFTP you can just send and receive
files. Unlike FTP, TFTP is not secure and sends smaller
blocks of data.

Domain Name System (DNS)

Resolves hostnames such as www.cisco.com into IP
addresses.

Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP)

Sends electronic mail across the network.

Post Office Protocol 3 (POP3)

Receives electronic mail by accessing an Internet server.


Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) Model

TABLE 1.3

Continued

Application Protocols

Function

Network File System (NFS)

Enables users with different operating systems (for example, NT and Unix workstations) to share files.

Network News Transfer Protocol (NNTP)

Offers access to Usenet newsgroup postings.

Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)

Monitors the network and manages configurations.
Collects statistics to analyze network performance and
ensure network security.

Network Time Protocol (NTP)

Synchronizes clocks on the Internet to provide accurate
local time on the user system.

Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP)

Works dynamically to provide an IP address, subnet mask,
domain name, and a default gateway for routers. Works
with DNS and WINS (used for NetBIOS addressing).

EXAM ALERT
Know the Protocols Be prepared to identify which protocols are used at the Application layer of the
OSI model. Also familiarize yourself with the general functions of these protocols.

Presentation Layer
Layer 6 presents data to the Application layer and acts as a data format translator. Format
translation is necessary to ensure that the data can be read by applications. Layer 6 also handles the structuring of data and negotiating data transfer syntax to Layer 7. Processes involved
include data encryption, decryption, compression, and decompression.

NOTE
The Presentation layer is the only layer that can actually change data.

Layer 6 protocols include the following:
. Joint Photographic Experts Group (JPEG)
. American Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII)
. Extended Binary Coded Decimal Interchange Code (EBCDIC)
. Tagged Image File Format (TIFF)
. Graphic Image File (GIF)


Chapter 1: Standard Internetworking Models
. Picture (PICT)
. Moving Picture Experts Group (MPEG)
. Musical Instrument Digital Interface (MIDI)
. QuickTime
. Rich Text Format (RTF)

NOTE
Graphic and visual images use PICT, TIFF, and JPEG. Audio and video formatting uses MIDI, MPEG,
QuickTime, and RTF.

Session Layer
Layer 5 is primarily concerned with dialog control among devices. This layer determines the
beginning, middle, and end of a session or conversation that occurs between applications. In
this way, the Session layer acts as an intermediary for those applications. Table 1.4 lists the
Session layer protocols and their functionality.
TABLE 1.4

Session Layer Protocols and Their General Functionality

Session Layer Protocol

Function

Network File System (NFS)

Accesses remote resources transparently and represents files and
directories as if local to the user system. Developed by SUN and
used on Unix workstations.

Structured Query Language (SQL)

Functions as a query language that requests, updates, and manages
databases. Developed by IBM and compatible with XML and HTML.

Remote Procedure Call (RPC)

Basis for client/server communications. Calls are created on the
client and then carried out on the server.

AppleTalk Session Protocol (ASP)

Also client/server–based communications, but specific to AppleTalk
client and server devices.

X Window

Communicates with remote Unix machines and enables the user to
operate the device as if attached locally.

Digital Network Architecture
Session Control Protocol (DNA SCP)

A proprietary Digital Equipment Corporation Networking (DECnet)
protocol, also referred to as a DECnet session.

04_0789735199_CH01.qxd

11/30/05

12:43 PM

Page 21

21

Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) Model

Lower Layers
The lower layers of the OSI model focus on data transport, which can be achieved via a router,
switch, or a physical wire. They are listed in Table 1.5.
TABLE 1.5

The Lower Layers of the OSI Model—Responsible for Data Transport

Layer Number

Layer Name

4

Transport

3

Network

2

Data Link

1

Physical

Transport Layer
Layer 4 is responsible for end-to-end connections and data delivery between two hosts. The
ability to segment and reassemble data is a key functionality of this layer. For example, when
one system is sending data to another system, that data can be segmented into smaller data
blocks and transmitted across the network. The receiving system can then reassemble the segmented data blocks at the Transport layer. Transmissions occur via logical connectivity
between the sender and destination. Layer 4 provides transparent data transfer by hiding
details of the transmission from the upper layers.

EXAM ALERT
Segmenting occurs at the Transport layer.

Layer 4 also provides the following functionality:
. Fault detection
. Error recovery
. Establishing, maintaining, and tearing down virtual circuits

The Transport layer can provide reliable networking via acknowledgments, sequencing, and
flow control.
. Acknowledgments—Delivered segments are acknowledged to the sender. If they are

not acknowledged, the sender will retransmit.

04_0789735199_CH01.qxd

11/30/05

12:43 PM

Page 22

22

Chapter 1: Standard Internetworking Models
. Sequencing—Data segments are sequenced into their original order when they arrive

at the destination.
. Flow Control—Provides buffer controls that prevent packet flooding to the destina-

tion host. Buffers store bursts of data for processing when the transmission is complete.
Layer 4 protocols include the following:
. Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)
. User Datagram Protocol (UDP)
. Sequenced Packet Exchange (SPX)—A reliable communications protocol created by

Novell NetWare

NOTE
TCP and UDP protocols are important to know for the exam. These are discussed later in this chapter,
under the “Transport Layer” section of the TCP/IP model.

Network Layer
Layer 3 is where the best path determination is made for packet delivery across the network.
Routed protocols such as IP are used to determine logical addressing, which can identify the
destination of a packet or datagram. The most common network device found at the Network
layer is a router; however, Layer 3 switches may also be implemented.
A router at the Network layer follows these general steps to ensure proper data transport:
1. The router checks the destination IP address of the incoming packet on the router

interface.
2. Packets destined for that router are processed, whereas packets destined for another

router must be looked up in the routing table.
3. The router determines an exit interface based on the routing table and sends the pack-

et to the interface for framing and forwarding. If there is no route in the routing table,
the packet is dropped by the router.
A routing table on a router contains the following information:
. Network Address
. Interface—Exit interface used to forward packets
. Metric—Distance to reach a remote network

04_0789735199_CH01.qxd

11/30/05

12:43 PM

Page 23

23

Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) Model

There are two packet types utilized at Layer 3:
. Data Packets—Transport data across the internetwork and are supported by IP and

IPX protocols.
. Route Update Packets—Send updates to neighbor routers about all networks con-

nected to that internetwork and are supported by routing protocols such as RIP,
EIGRP, and OSPF.
Layer 3 routed protocols include the following:
. Internet Protocol (IP)
. Internet Packet Exchange (IPX)—Part of the IPX/SPX protocol suite created by

Novell NetWare
. AppleTalk DDP—Datagram delivery protocol used by Apple

EXAM ALERT
For the exam, this book focuses on IP, which is reviewed in Chapter 4, “IP at the Network Layer.”

NOTE
Routers and logical addressing (that is, IP addresses) are used at Layer 3. Data at Layer 3 is in the form of
packets or a datagram.

Data Link Layer
Layer 2 ensures reliable data transfer from the Network layer to the Physical layer for transmission across the network.
Two domains determine data transport reliability:
. Broadcast Domain—A group of nodes that can receive each other’s broadcast mes-

sages and are segmented by routers.
. Collision Domain—A group of nodes that share the same media and are segmented

by switches. A collision occurs if two nodes attempt a simultaneous transmission.
Carrier Sense Multiple Access Collision Detection (CSMA/CD) is an access method that
sends a jam signal to notify the devices that there has been a collision. The devices
then halt transmission for a random back-off time.

04_0789735199_CH01.qxd

11/30/05

12:43 PM

Page 24

24

Chapter 1: Standard Internetworking Models

EXAM ALERT
Routers segment broadcast domains, whereas switches segment collision domains.

Data received from the Network layer is formatted into frames to be transmitted to the
Physical layer. Physical addressing or hardware addressing (rather than logical addressing)
ensures that data is delivered to the appropriate node on the LAN. This layer is also responsible for error notification (not correction), network topology, and flow control.
This is the only layer of the OSI model that has sublayers. The two sublayers in question
define the IEEE Ethernet 802.3 frame, which in turn provides physical addressing and flow
control. Also, routed protocol information (IP, IPX, AppleTalk, and so on) is provided to the
upper layers.
The IEEE Ethernet 802.3 sublayers are Media Access Control (MAC) and Logical Link
Control (LLC), and are described in the following sections.

Media Access Control (MAC)
The MAC address is the hard-coded address on the network interface controller (NIC) of the
Physical layer node attached to the network. Although the source address will always be a unicast or single destination address, the destination address can be a unicast, multicast (a determined subset of nodes), or broadcast (all nodes in a broadcast domain) address.
Each MAC address must be unique and follow this format:
. It must consist of 48 bits.
. It must be displayed by 12 hexadecimal digits (0-9, A-F).
. The first 6 hexadecimal digits in the address are a vendor code or organizationally

unique identifier (OUI) assigned by the NIC manufacturer.
This is an example of a MAC address: 00:00:07:A9:B2:EB

EXAM ALERT
Know the structure of a MAC address and that the broadcast address value is FFFF FFFF FFFF.

Logical Link Control (LLC)
The LLC sublayer complements the MAC sublayer in the ethernet model; the LLC is
responsible for framing, error, and flow control. LLC provides a service access point (SAP)
identifier in the frame. The SAP field of the frame consists of one byte that identifies an

04_0789735199_CH01.qxd

11/30/05

12:43 PM

Page 25

25

Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) Model

upper layer protocol (for example, 06 = IP, whereas E0 = IPX). The LLC inserts a destination
Two devices are used at the Data Link layer:
. Bridges—Bridges connect two segments in a single network or two networks togeth-

er. They simply forward data between those segments/networks without performing
an analysis or redirection of the data.
. Switches—At Layer 2, switches are multi-port bridges that utilize Application Specific

Integrated Circuit (ASIC) to forward frames. Each port of the switch has a dedicated
bandwidth.

EXAM ALERT
Dedicated bandwidth enables the switch port to guarantee the speed assigned to that port. For example, 100Mbps port connections get 100Mbps transmission rates.

Although both devices create a separate collision domain for each connected device, all the
devices connected to either are a part of the same broadcast domain. Remember that broadcast domains are segmented at the Network layer by routers.
Switches and bridges identify MAC addresses by scanning for the source MAC address of
each frame received.

NOTE
Bridging and switching are discussed in more detail in Chapter 3.

04_0789735199_CH01.qxd

11/30/05

12:43 PM

Page 26

26

Chapter 1: Standard Internetworking Models

Physical Layer
Layer 1 moves bits between nodes. Electrical, mechanical, procedural, and functional requirements are defined at the Physical layer to assist with the activation, maintenance, and deactivation of physical connectivity between devices.
Other attributes of Layer 1 include the following:
. Specification of voltage, wire speed, and pin-out cables
. Capability to receive and transmit a data signal
. Identification of the interface that is set up between the data terminal equipment

(DTE) and the data communication equipment (DCE)

NOTE
Although DTE is the locally attached device, DCE is typically found at the service provider. DTE services
can be accessed with either a model or a channel service unit/data service unit (CSU/DSU). For additional
information on associated Layer 1 technologies, continue on to Chapter 2, “Physical Layer Networking
Concepts.”

Devices at the Physical layer include hubs and repeaters. Hubs and repeaters extend a network,
whereas Layer 2 and Layer 3 devices segment a network.

OSI Layered Communications
Objective:

Evaluate rules for packet control
Now that you have reviewed all seven layers of the OSI model, it is a good time to see how
those layers communicate with each other. Each layer passes information to adjacent layers by
using Protocol Data Units (PDUs). The PDU includes both the message and the
protocol/control information from the forwarding layer. That control information can be in
the form of a header or trailer. The process of adding a header or trailer to the PDU at each
layer of the OSI is called encapsulation.
Each layer has an associated control information name, which is listed in Table 1.6.

04_0789735199_CH01.qxd

11/30/05

12:43 PM

Page 27

27

Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) Model

TABLE 1.6

OSI Model Layers and Their Control Information Names

OSI Layer

Control Information Name

Application

Data

Presentation
Session
Transport

Segment

Network

Packet

Data Link

Frame

Physical

Bit

Based on this chart, you can see how information is encapsulated as it travels down through
the various layers. The correct order for data encapsulation is data, segment, packet, frame,
and bit.

EXAM ALERT
It is important to know the control information name for the OSI layers and the correct order for data
encapsulation.

REVIEW BREAK
Let’s take a few minutes to go over the OSI model. Table 1.7 lists the seven layers and significant aspects of each layer.
TABLE 1.7

OSI Model Layers and Their Respective Functionalities

OSI Layer

Important Functions

Application

Provides an interface between a host’s communication software and any necessary external
applications.
Evaluates what resources are necessary and the available resources for communication
between two devices.
Synchronizes client/server applications.
Provides error control and data integrity between applications.
Provides system-independent processes to a host.
(continues)

04_0789735199_CH01.qxd

11/30/05

12:43 PM

Page 28

28

Chapter 1: Standard Internetworking Models

TABLE 1.7

Continued

OSI Layer

Important Functions

Presentation Presents data to the Application layer.
Acts as a data format translator.
Handles the structuring of data and negotiating data transfer syntax to Layer 7.
Processes involved include data encryption, decryption, compression, and decompression.
Session

Handles dialog control among devices.
Determines the beginning, middle, and end of a session or conversation that occurs between
applications (intermediary).

Transport

Manages end-to-end connections and data delivery between two hosts.
Segments and reassembles data.
Provides transparent data transfer by hiding details of the transmission from the upper layers.

Network

Determines best path for packet delivery across the network.
Determines logical addressing, which can identify the destination of a packet or datagram.
Uses data packets (IP, IPX) and route update packets (RIP, EIGRP, and so on).
Uses routed protocols IP, IPX, and AppleTalk DDP.
Devices include routers and Layer 3 switches.

Data Link

Ensures reliable data transfer from the Network layer to the Physical layer.
Oversees physical or hardware addressing.
Formats packets into a frame.
Provides error notification.
Devices include bridges and Layer 2 switches.

Physical

Moves bits between nodes.
Assists with the activation, maintenance, and deactivation of physical connectivity between
devices.
Devices include hubs and repeaters.

TCP/IP Model
Objective:

Evaluate TCP/IP communication process and its associated protocols
The TCP/IP model, also known as the Department of Defense (DoD) model, was created by
the DoD when they developed the TCP/IP protocol suite. Their goal was to provide reliable
networking and data integrity in the event of a disaster. This model is prevalent in the current

04_0789735199_CH01.qxd

11/30/05

12:43 PM

Page 29

29

TCP/IP Model

networking community. Although the OSI model is rarely used (except for the terminology),
TCP/IP communications are ingrained in today’s networking fabric and are a focal point on
the CCNA exam.

NOTE
So far, the Internet has been a great example of an internetwork and a WAN. It’s also a great example of
the TCP/IP protocol suite at work.

Essentially the TCP/IP model has many similarities to the OSI model. Table 1.8 lists the layers of the OSI model in the left column and the related layers of the TCP/IP model in the
right.
TABLE 1.8

Layers of the OSI and TCP/IP Models

OSI Layer

TCP/IP Layer

Application

Application

Presentation
Session
Transport

Transport

Network

Internet

Data Link

Network Access

Physical

Application Layer
This layer combines functionalities of the three top layers of the OSI model and may also be
called the Process/Application layer. Some of the most popular applications (email, file transport, and so on) interface with this layer to communicate with other applications on the network.
If you’ll remember, the description of the Application layer of the OSI model included a list
of application protocols and their primary functions. (Refer to Table 1.3.) These applications
are also relative to the Application layer of the TCP/IP model.
Table 1.9 provides a quick list of the protocols at their respective layers of the TCP/IP model.

04_0789735199_CH01.qxd

11/30/05

12:43 PM

Page 30

30

Chapter 1: Standard Internetworking Models

TABLE 1.9

Protocols for Each Layer of the TCP/IP Model

TCP/IP Layer

Protocols

Application

Telnet

HTTP/HTTPS

FTP

TFTP

DNS

SMTP

POP3

NFS

NNTP

SNMP

NTP

DHCP

Transport

TCP

UDP

Internet

ICMP

ARP

RARP

IP

Network Interface

Ethernet

Fast Ethernet

Token Ring

FDDI

Transport Layer
The Transport layer corresponds with the Transport layer of the OSI model and is also known
as the Host-to-Host layer. Not only is this layer responsible for reliable data delivery, but it
can also make certain that data arrives in the proper order. You will see two transport layer protocols on the CCNA exam. These protocols are TCP and UDP. The following sections cover
each protocol and its related applications.

TCP
TCP is a reliable connection-oriented protocol. TCP uses acknowledgments, sequencing, and
flow control to ensure reliability (please refer back to the “Transport Layer” section of the OSI
model for definitions of these terms). A TCP segment contains fields for the Sequence,
Acknowledgment, and Windowing numbers. These fields help make sure that datagrams
arrive undamaged. This is considered to be reliable delivery.
TCP uses Positive Acknowledgment and Retransmission (PAR):
. The source device begins a timer when a segment is sent and retransmits if the timer

runs out before an acknowledgment is received.
. The source device keeps track of segments that are sent and requires an acknowledg-

ment for each segment.
. The destination device acknowledges when a segment is received by sending a packet

to the source that iterates the next sequence number it is looking for from the source.


Flow control via TCP includes windowing. Windowing is a method for traffic congestion control where a window is determined by the receiving system to limit the number of data segments (bytes) that can be sent by the source device without an acknowledgment from the
recipient. The size of a window determines the number of unacknowledged data segments
allowed by the receiving system. Window sizes vary and can change throughout the duration
of a connection. Increasing a window size enables more data segments to be transmitted to the
recipient before acknowledgment, whereas decreasing the window size allows for fewer data
segments to be transmitted before an acknowledgment is sent.
As mentioned at the beginning of this section, TCP is a connection-oriented protocol. When
a source device is ready to transmit data, it sets up a Connection-Oriented Communication
session with the intended recipient. This is a call setup or a three-way handshake. When the data
is successfully transmitted, a call termination occurs to disconnect the virtual circuit.
The three-way handshake includes the following steps:
1. A “connection agreement” segment is sent to the recipient asking to synchronize sys-

tems. This step is associated with the term SYN packet.
2. The second and third segments acknowledge the request to connect and determine the

rules of engagement. Sequencing synchronization is requested of the receiving device.
A two-way connection is established. This step is associated with the term SYN-ACK
packet.
3. A final segment is sent as an acknowledgement that the rules have been accepted and a

connection has been formed. This step is associated with the term ACK packet.
For the exam you may also be asked to identify the applications that use TCP and their respective port numbers. Both TCP and UDP use port numbers. Public applications are assigned
port numbers below 256. Numbers 256-1023 are allocated to companies. Numbers above
1023 are dynamically assigned by an application. Access lists can use port numbers to filter
traffic. Table 1.10 lists applications that use TCP.

04_0789735199_CH01.qxd

11/30/05

12:43 PM

Page 32

32

Chapter 1: Standard Internetworking Models

TABLE 1.10

Applications Using TCP

Application

Port Number(s)

FTP

20,21

Telnet

23

SMTP

25

DNS (zone transfers)

53

HTTP

80

POP3

110

NNTP

119

HTTPS

443

EXAM ALERT
The application and port identifiers used by TCP and UDP should be memorized for the exam.

UDP is the other protocol that is used at the Transport layer of the TCP/IP model.

UDP
UDP is much simpler than TCP because it is a connectionless protocol. UDP headers contain only the source and destination ports, a length field, and a checksum. Because of the lack
of a sequence, acknowledgment, and windowing field, UDP cannot guarantee delivery.
Because there are no delivery guarantees, UDP is considered unreliable. With this protocol,
it is up to the application to provide reliability. 
On the plus side, UDP is considerably cheaper to implement and has faster transfer rates.
Table 1.11 lists the applications that use UDP.
TABLE 1.11

Applications Using UDP

Application

Port Number(s)

DHCP

67,68

DNS (name resolution)

53

TFTP

69

04_0789735199_CH01.qxd

11/30/05

12:43 PM

Page 33

33

TCP/IP Model

TABLE 1.11

Continued

Application

Port Number(s)

NTP

123

SNMP

161

NOTE
Note that DNS is listed for both TCP and UDP because it can be used with both protocols. With TCP, DNS
is used for zone transfers and with UDP, it is used for name resolution.
Internet Layer
The Internet layer corresponds with the Network layer of the OSI model.
The following protocols relate to the logical transmission of packets:
. IP
. ICMP
. ARP, RARP, and Proxy ARP

IP
IP uses logical or virtual addressing to get a packet from a source to its destination. IP addresses are used by routers to make forwarding decisions.
Some key characteristics of IP addresses include the following:
. Addresses are allocated by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA).
. IPv4 IP addresses are 32 bits, divided into four octets (8 bits each). An example of an

IP address in dotted decimal format would be 172.16.122.204.
. The minimum value (per octet) is 0 and the maximum value is 255.
. IPv6, which is the future of IP addresses, is 128 bits.


NOTE
IP addressing is a topic discussed with additional detail in Chapter 4.

IP datagram.

04_0789735199_CH01.qxd

11/30/05

12:43 PM

Page 35

35

Cisco 3-Layer Hierarchical Model

ICMP
Internet Control Messaging Protocol is used by ping and traceroute utilities.
Ping (Packet Internet Groper) enables you to validate that an IP address exists and can accept
requests. The following transmissions are used by the Ping utility:
. Ping sends an echo request packet to receive the echo response.
. Routers send Destination Unreachable messages when they can’t reach the destination

network and they are forced to drop the packet. The router that drops the packet sends
the ICMP DU message.
Traceroute traces the route or path taken from a client to a remote host. Traceroute also
reports the IP addresses of the routers at each next hop on the way to the destination. This is
especially useful when you suspect that a router on the route to an unreachable network is
responsible for dropping the packet.

NOTE
Extended ping enables you to select a datagram size and a timeout.

ARP, RARP, and Proxy ARP
The Address Resolution Protocol (ARP), Reverse Address Resolution Protocol (RARP), and
Proxy Address Resolution Protocol (Proxy ARP) are all protocols used at the TCP/IP model’s
Internet layer.
ARP maps a known IP address to a MAC address by sending a broadcast ARP. When the destination IP address is on another subnet, the sender broadcasts ARP for the router’s ethernet
port or default gateway, so the MAC address sent back is that of the router’s ethernet port.
RARP maps a known MAC address to an IP address.
Proxy ARP enables a router to respond to an ARP request that has been sent to a remote host.
Some Unix machines (especially Solaris) rely on Proxy ARP versus default gateways.

Network Interface Layer
This layer corresponds with the Data Link and Physical layers of the OSI model. As mentioned
earlier in the chapter, this layer manages hardware addressing and physical data transfer.

Cisco 3-Layer Hierarchical Model
When I think of the word hierarchy outside the realm of networking, I think of the military.
Each branch of the military has a list of ranks that is assigned to each soldier. In the Army for

04_0789735199_CH01.qxd

11/30/05

12:43 PM

Page 36

36

Chapter 1: Standard Internetworking Models

example, the ranks range from an enlisted private all the way up to the General of the Army.
Each soldier reports to a higher-ranking soldier, and each rank has its own group of functions
and responsibilities, much like the layers of the Cisco hierarchical model.
The term hierarchy as it pertains to this model is the classification of a group of functions or
responsibilities into a logical layer where each layer is subordinate to the layer above it in the
hierarchy. This model is most effective when you plan to implement a small- to moderatesized network.

EXAM ALERT
Remember that logical rather than physical layers also comprise the OSI and TCP/IP models. A single
device may operate at more than one layer of the model, or more than one device may operate at a
single layer.

The following sections start from the bottom and work up through the ranks to the top of the
hierarchy. 

Access Layer
End users are connected at the Access layer; therefore, this layer may also be referred to as
the desktop layer. These end users may also be combined to form a workgroup. Virtual LAN
(VLAN) workgroups are defined by virtual access lists or filter lists at the Access layer to allow


Cisco 3-Layer Hierarchical Model

for a continuation of the policies implemented at the Distribution layer. This functionality further controls internetwork resource access granted to each end user or workgroup. Users may
access locally available resources at this level or they may be directed to the Distribution layer
to access remotely available resources.

EXAM ALERT
Chapter 9, “Virtual LANs,” discusses Virtual LANs in depth. Configuring and troubleshooting VLANs
are both CCNA exam topics.

Distribution Layer
In the hierarchy, the Distribution layer is the middle man between the access and core layers.
You may also hear this layer called the workgroup layer. Although the Distribution layer acts
as a gathering point for the Access layer devices, it also uses a router or Layer 3 switch whenever necessary to determine how to traverse packets to the core layer.
You achieve traffic control at this layer by using various policies that ultimately provide network management and security.
Primary functions of the Distribution layer include the following:
. Routing (best path determination)
. Routing between VLANs
. Filtering—Access lists provide packet filtering, Quality of Service (QoS), network

address translation (NAT), and route filtering
. Accessing WAN
. Defining broadcast and multicast domains
. Translating between different types of media (for example, ethernet and token ring)

EXAM ALERT
Design and implementation of access lists are CCNA exam topics. Given their importance, Chapter 13,
“Access Lists,” is devoted to access lists. Also, Chapter 5, “Introduction to Cisco Routers and
Switches,” reviews Cisco routers and switches that may be used at the Distribution layer. The 2600
series Cisco routers and 4000 series Cisco switches are included in that chapter.

Core Layer
The Core layer is the foundation or backbone of the network. Much like a building would falter without its foundation, a network would fall apart without the structure provided by the

04_0789735199_CH01.qxd

11/30/05

12:43 PM

Page 38

38

Chapter 1: Standard Internetworking Models

core layer. As mentioned before, the Distribution layer manages access to the core. This
enables the core to focus on speed and reliability. The goal is to provide high-speed switching
as quickly and efficiently as possible. Any latency or delay can affect everyone on that network.
Because speed is of the essence, the policies implemented at the Distribution layer (for example, filtering, access lists, and so on) should not occur at the Core layer.
Redundancy and fault tolerance are also important to the successful design of a core. If a network is set up with full redundancy, any failures should be transparent to the end user, which
is the definition of a fault tolerant network.

NOTE
You might see Enterprise servers (server farms) connected to the core. Devices used at the core layer may
include the Catalyst 6500 series switch or the 7000 series routers. These devices also are reviewed in
Chapter 5.

If you were tasked with the design of a new network, would you select a Layer 2 core or a
Layer 3 core? Although the Layer 2 core consists of a switched hierarchical setup, a Layer 3
core consists of a routed hierarchical setup.
The answer depends upon the individual requirements of the company in question. If the
primary requirement is speed, perhaps a Layer 2 core is appropriate. If a stated desire is the
additional network control that is available with a routed solution, then a Layer 3 core would
fit the bill.

EXAM ALERT
Remember that routers segment broadcast domains (Layer 3 core) while switches segment collision
domains (Layer 2 core).


Although the hierarchical model is typically mentioned in published reviews for the CCNA
examination, Cisco also created the Enterprise Composite Network Model (ECNM) for
larger-scale network implementations. The ECNM is often mentioned in reviews for the
Cisco Certified Design Associate (CCDA) exam and is covered in Appendix A, “Future Exam
Topics,” of this book.
The hierarchical model can assist in the implementation of a small- to moderate-sized network. The composite model goes a step further and provides a guide for creating a larger network. Because Cisco has a group of topics listed as “Planning and Designing,” it is important
to have a general knowledge of their models for network design.

04_0789735199_CH01.qxd

11/30/05

12:43 PM

Page 40

40

Chapter 1: Standard Internetworking Models

Chapter Summary
The term internetworking signifies the industry, products, and processes that are required to
handle the challenges of interconnecting networks. Various internetworks can be used,
depending on the user’s specific needs. For example, a LAN is a small network that is confined
to a local geographical area. A LAN can connect to another LAN via a switch, bridge, or
repeater. If a LAN attempts to connect to a MAN or WAN, it needs to interconnect via a
router. WANs are much larger in scope. WANs are good for a company that has offices in multiple cities around the country. LAN and WAN technology are discussed in greater detail in
later chapters of this book.
This chapter also discusses the importance of layered reference models such as the OSI model,
TCP/IP model, and the Cisco 3-Layer Hierarchical model. The OSI model is important to
discussions of internetworking because the terminology related to each layer has endured the
test of time. Seven layers essentially map out the transmission of data from one end-user system to another. Multiple protocols relate to the interoperation of each layer. Special focus is
placed on the Application layer protocols and their primary functions.
The TCP/IP model is implemented in a large portion of the networks that are set up today.
The model is a condensed version of the OSI model with four related layers. The two most
important protocols discussed in the TCP/IP suite for this first chapter are TCP and UDP.
TCP is a connection-oriented protocol that provides for reliable data transport. UDP is a connectionless protocol that is considered unreliable. There are advantages and disadvantages to
each protocol. Although TCP is reliable, it also costs more to implement on a network.
Overall, this chapter was designed to provide a general overview of standard internetworks and
the layered architecture that was designed to represent network interactions. Now that you
have gone over all of the internetworking models that are relevant to the exam, you are ready
to move on to Chapter 2 and review the concepts related to networking at the Physical layer.


Chapter 2: Physical Layer Networking Concepts

Introduction
Chapter 1, “Standard Internetworking Models,” went over the layers of the OSI and TCP/IP
models. This chapter goes into more detail regarding the Physical layer. Remember that electrical, mechanical, procedural, and functional requirements are defined at this layer. Such
requirements provide assistance with the activation, maintenance, and deactivation of physical
connectivity between devices.
Concepts covered include the topologies, cabling, and devices that are relevant at the physical
level and important to understand when studying for the CCNA exam. Also, because wireless
communications are constantly evolving and are flourishing in today’s marketplace, several significant wireless technologies are covered as well.

Network Topologies
Objective:

Design a simple LAN, using Cisco technology
Topology can be defined as either the physical or logical layout of a network. Typically, a physical topology is documented with a network diagram, such as a Visio diagram. Diagrams can
prove to be extremely helpful when troubleshooting a network issue. Most companies keep a
database with copies of their entire network as well as individual site connections. If you work
in a sales capacity, diagrams are drawn up to plan out the network setup and to ensure that all
bases are covered to meet customer expectations.
Just as you might imagine, a physical topology consists of the cables, workstations, and other
peripheral devices that comprise the network. A logical topology refers to how the network
actually communicates. This may differ from the physical topology; therefore, this section covers the four most common physical network topologies and what the associated logical network topology is for the physical star network.

The Bus Topology
A bus network topology may also be referred to as a linear bus topology. This topology is set up so
that the network nodes are connected via a single cable (also referred to as a trunk or a backbone).
Electrical signals are sent from one end of the cable to the other. When this occurs, all connected devices receive that electrical signal transmission. Network devices are connected directly to
the trunk with a T connector. Both ends of the trunk use a terminator to stop the electrical signal from echoing back down the cable. 
05_0789735199_CH02.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 57

57

Network Topologies

Example of a physical
bus topology.

Because the bus topology uses a single cable, it is a low-cost option that is easily implemented. The downside to this setup is the lack of redundancy. If the cable breaks, the entire network goes down.

The Ring Topology
A ring network topology is set up so that one device is directly connected to two other devices
on the same network. When a device emits a data signal transmission, the transmission is sent
in a single direction to the next connected device. The transmission continues to pass along
each device successively until it arrives back at the original transmitting device. This method
creates a ring or a loop. 


With this topology, a single ring configuration lacks a failover solution. If there is a break anywhere on the ring, it brings down the entire network. This was the same situation with the bus
network topology. For this reason, you may also configure a dual ring topology. If there is a
failure on one physical ring, the other physical ring passes data transmissions to ensure network operability. Figure 2.3 shows an example of a physical dual ring network topology.

05_0789735199_CH02.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 58

58

Chapter 2: Physical Layer Networking Concepts

The Star Topology
The star network topology is the most commonly implemented network design. With this
topology, there is a central device with separate connections to each end node. Each connection uses a separate cable, which adds to the cost of implementation. When hubs are used in
a star topology, a logical bus is created. This type of network star is called a hub-and-spoke
topology.
NOTE
Although the star topology is a physical star, it also can be referred to as a logical bus topology because
hubs are used to control communication.


Network Topologies

Because there are separate connections between end nodes and the central device, this topology enables the network administrator to add or remove end nodes without affecting service
to all other nodes on that network. This is also possible with the token ring topology, which
enables you to add multistation access units (MAUs) to the network without disrupting service. The same cannot be said for the physical bus network topologies.

The Mesh Topology
The full mesh network topology is set up so that each device is directly connected to every
other device on the network. This connection method has built-in redundancy. If one link goes
down, the device transmits via another link. 
A partial mesh network topology has direct connectivity between some of the network
devices, but not all of them, as the full mesh topology does. Figure 2.6 shows an example of
a physical partial mesh topology.
Overall, mesh topologies are much more expensive to implement. However, the cost may be
acceptable given the reliability of this design.


Chapter 2: Physical Layer Networking Concepts


Cabling
This section reviews the types of media or cable that are used for LAN connectivity. The primary media types include coaxial, twisted-pair, and fiber-optic cables. Cable media offer physical connectivity to network devices. Cables may consist of metal, glass, or plastic. Copper is
the most popular metal cable. Fiber-optic uses glass or plastic cabling.
Before you look at each medium in greater detail, it’s a good idea to discuss several important
terms related to data transmission that are directly affected by what type of cable media is used
on a network.
Review the following terminology:
. Bandwidth—The total amount of information that can traverse a communications

medium, measured in bits per second. Measurement of bandwidth is helpful for network performance analysis. Also, availability is increasing but limited.

EXAM ALERT
For the exam, remember that bandwidth is used to analyze network performance and that although
availability is increasing, it is also limited.

. Attenuation—Occurs over long distances as a signal loses strength.
. Electromagnetic Interference (EMI)—Interference or noise caused by electromag-

netic signals, which can decrease data integrity.

05_0789735199_CH02.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 61

61

Cabling
. Crosstalk—An electrical or magnetic field originating from one communications sig-

nal that can affect the signal in a nearby circuit.
. Near-end Crosstalk (NEXT)—Crosstalk measured at the transmitting end of a

cable.
. Far-end Crosstalk (FEXT)—Crosstalk measured at the far end of the cable from

where the transmission was sent.

EXAM ALERT
Know the terms NEXT and FEXT and what they represent for the CCNA exam.

Coaxial Cable
Coaxial cables for data consist of a single copper wire surrounded by a plastic insulation cover
and a braided copper shield. Primarily, two types of coaxial cables are used in conjunction with
Ethernet LAN networks. They are called thin and thick coax.
Thin coax has the following characteristics:
. Also called thinnet
. .25 inches in diameter
. Maximum cable length = 185 meters
. Uses Bayonet Neill Concelman connectors (BNCs)
. 10BASE-2 ethernet standard

NOTE
The Institute for Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) ethernet standards are reviewed in Chapter 3,
“Data Link Networking Concepts.”

Thick coax has the following characteristics:
. Also called thicknet
. Maximum cable length = 500 meters
. Uses vampire taps (where the tap goes through the shield to touch the copper wire)
. Uses attachment unit interface (AUI) adapters
. 10BASE-5 ethernet standard

05_0789735199_CH02.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 62

62

Chapter 2: Physical Layer Networking Concepts

The coaxial cable media is not nearly as popular as twisted pair or fiber optic. It is not as flexible or cost effective as other options. You may see this cable implemented on an older network.

Twisted-Pair Cable
Just as the name indicates, twisted-pair cables twist two wires together to form a pair. This
solution helps to reduce interference and attenuation. There are two types of twisted-pair
cabling defined by the Telecommunications Information Association (TIA). Those types are
unshielded twisted pair (UTP) and shielded twisted pair (STP). UTP is the more common and
cost-effective solution. STP has an additional shield, which provides additional reduction of
interference and attenuation, but also makes it the more expensive solution. For the exam,
UTP is reviewed in greater detail.
UTP key characteristics include the following:
. Eight color-coded wires
. Four pairs
. Uses an RJ-45 connector
. Vulnerable to EMI
. Maximum, practical length is 100 meters
. 10BASE-T, 100BaseT, and 1000BaseT ethernet standards

TIP
When reviewing for the exam, note that UTP is vulnerable to EMI and uses an RJ-45 connector.

EXAM ALERT
Because attenuation causes a signal to lose strength as the length of a cable increases, the maximum,
practical length of a UTP cable is 100 meters.

UTP can be broken down into six more categories. You may have heard someone talk about
a Cat5 cable. They are referring to a Category 5 UTP cable. Each category has different characteristics:
. Category 1—Telephone cable that is not used for data transmission.
. Category 2—Data cable that can handle speeds up to 4Mbps. This is no longer fast

enough for networks today.

05_0789735199_CH02.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 63

63

Cabling
. Category 3—Data cable that can handle speeds up to 10Mbps. It is faster than the

Cat2 cable, and this was quite popular until network speeds surpassed the 10Mbps
threshold.
. Category 4—Data cable that can handle speeds up to 16Mbps. Meant to be used with

token ring.
. Category 5—Data cable that can handle speeds up to 100Mbps. This is currently the

most popular cable selection.
. Category 5e—Data cable that can handle speeds up to 1Gbps. This is a popular

choice for Gigabit Ethernet networks.
. Category 6—This cable was created to exceed speeds of 1Gbps.

It is also important to know the pinouts for twisted-pair cables. The term pinout is used in the
electronic industry to describe the purpose of each pin in a connector. When choosing your
cable, you need to know which pinout is appropriate to connect the devices on your network.
The following sections cover the straight-through and cross-over cables.

Straight-Through Cable
Straight-through cables use four wires and pins 1, 2, 3, and 6. Given those pins, pin 1 is connected on one end of the cable to pin 1 on the opposite end of the cable. Pin 2 at one end is
connected to pin 2 on the far end, and so on. Figure 2.7 shows an example of a straightthrough cable pinout.

Chapter 2: Physical Layer Networking Concepts

These cables are meant only for interface to interface connections on ethernet networks, so
you cannot use them with token ring, ISDN, and so on.
Use a straight-through cable for the following connection types:
. From a PC to a switch or a hub
. From a router to a switch or a hub

TIP
For the CCNA exam, you need to know which devices can be connected with a straight-through cable.
Remember that straight-through cables are used to connect unlike device interfaces. Different devices =
straight-through cable.

Cross-Over Cable
Cross-over cables also use four wires and pins 1, 2, 3, and 6. The difference is in how the pins
are connected at each end. With cross-over cables, pin 1 connects to pin 3 and pin 2 connects
to pin 6.

cable pinout.

Use a cross-over cable for the following connection types:
. From a switch to another switch
. From a router to another router
. From a PC to another PC

Example of a cross-over

05_0789735199_CH02.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 65

65

Cabling
. From a PC to a router
. From a hub to another hub
. From a hub to a switch

TIP
For the CCNA exam, you need to know which devices can be connected with a cross-over cable.
Remember that for the most part cross-over cables are used to connect similar device interfaces.

Rolled Cable
Rolled or rollover cables use eight wires and connect from a host to a console serial communications (com) port on a router. You may also hear this cable referred to as a console cable.
Make sure not to confuse a rollover cable with a cross-over cable for the CCNA exam.

Fiber-Optic Cable
Fiber-optic cables use light rather than electric signals to send data transmissions. These optical light signals travel a fiberglass core and you may hear this technology referred to as fiber
optics or optical cabling.



Chapter 2: Physical Layer Networking Concepts

Two categories of fiber-optic cabling are
. Multimode (MM)—This is generally used for shorter distances and is ideal for a cam-

pus-sized network. MM also has a larger diameter of optical fiber than SM fiber.
. Single-mode (SM)—This mode is used to span longer distances. SM also allows for a

higher data rate than MM and faster data transmission speeds.
Fiber-optic cables may use a subscriber connector (SC), straight tip (ST), or MegaTransferRegistered Jack (MT-RJ) connector. There are several Layer 2 ethernet protocols that can pass
data over fiber-optic cables. Those Layer 2 ethernet standards are 10BASE-FL, 100Base FX,
1000BaseSX, 1000BaseLX, and 1000BaseZX.
All in all, fiber is the best choice for a secure connection over longer distances. Because fiber
uses optical light signals for data transmission, it is not as easy to “eavesdrop” on communications as it is with copper cabling using electrical signals. Fiber is not susceptible to EMI and
crosstalk, as coaxial and twisted-pair cables are. It also offers the highest maximum speed of
the different cable types. You may have already guessed, but fiber is also the most expensive
option.

TIP
Fiber-optic cables are not susceptible to EMI.

TIP
On the CCNA exam, you may see the terms Main Distribution Frame (MDF) and an Intermediate
Distribution Frame (IDF). A distribution frame is a physical rack that allows for the termination and interconnection of cables. This process creates network cross-connects. With that in mind, the MDF provides a
point of interconnection between external telecommunications cabling and internal cabling in a facility. The
IDF is the point of interconnection for cabling between the MDF and end-user devices.

Wireless
Wireless technology uses radio transmissions rather than data transmissions over copper wire
or fiber-optic media. With wireless LANs (WLANs), a physical connection is no longer necessary. Electromagnetic energy, whose existence was proven way back in 1867, passes through
the atmosphere in varied wavelengths. Different wavelengths are differentiated by their different names. Spread Spectrum WLANs determine how data traverses the Radio Frequency
(RF) media. The most common applications for wireless technology are Wireless Fidelity,
Infrared, and Bluetooth technologies.

05_0789735199_CH02.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 67

67

Wireless

TIP
Keep in mind that Spread Spectrum WLANs allow for high-speed transmissions over short distances.
There are two types of spread spectrum radio: Direct Sequencing Spread Spectrum (DSSS) and
Frequency-Hopping Spread Spectrum (FHSS).

Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi)
IEEE created the 802.11 designation as the standard for wireless networking. IEEE 802.11
may be further defined by three more specific standards: 802.11a, 802.11b, and 802.11g. The
speed, distance, and features of 802.11 specifications are variable. The most common of these
specifications is the 802.11b standard, which may also be referred to as Wireless Fidelity (WiFi) or High Rate 802.11. IEEE 802.11b can allow for transmission speeds of up to 1–2Mbps.
It also uses a Radio Frequency (RF) of 2.4GHz.

TIP
For the CCNA exam, remember that the 802.11b standard is also known as Wi-Fi or High Rate 802.11.

802.11 can also be broken down again into the following wireless standards:
. 802.11a
. RF is 5GHz.
. Speed up to 54Mbps.
. Range of transmission is generally lower than that of 802.11g.
. 802.11b
. RF is 2.4GHz.
. Uses different channels to cover subfrequencies in the 2.4Ghz band.
. Speed up to 11Mbps.
. Range of transmission is generally greater than that of 802.11a and 802.11g.
. 802.11g
. RF is 2.4GHz.
. Speed up to 54Mbps.
. Range of transmission is generally lower than that of 802.11b.

05_0789735199_CH02.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 68

68

Chapter 2: Physical Layer Networking Concepts

Based on these summarizations, you can see the similarities and differences of each standard.
Please note that only 802.11a uses a different RF. This means that 802.11a is not compatible
with either 802.11b or 802.11g.

Infrared
Infrared resides in a region of the electromagnetic spectrum just beyond the red end of our visible spectrum. Infrared wireless technology uses infrared beams to pass data across a network.
Your television remote uses infrared technology to send requests to the television set. Speeds
can reach a maximum of 16Mbps and signals are used for short-distance communications.
Infrared can eliminate the need for those pesky cables that connect your keyboard or mouse
to your PC and cause clutter in your workspace. On the other hand, infrared may be easily
refracted or reflected so it should not be used near windows or glass objects.

Bluetooth
Bluetooth technology utilizes a short-range wireless radio connection to enable various devices
to interconnect. Such devices include cell phones, PCs, and Personal Digital Assistants
(PDAs). The only requirement to establish connectivity is a 10-meter range (approximately 33
feet) between communicating devices. When in range, Bluetooth uses an RF link in
the 2.4GHz range that has a 720Kbps per channel capacity to transfer voice or data. The
Bluetooth specification also has two power levels defined; a lower power level that covers the
shorter personal area within a room, and a higher power level that can cover a medium range
like the range within a home.

Physical Layer Devices
The discussion so far of physical layer networking concepts has gone over the physical network
topologies, cables, and wireless technology standards. Several network devices also are utilized
at the Physical layer. Those include repeaters, hubs, and network interfaces.

Repeaters
Chapter 1, with its discussion of the Physical layer, mentioned that repeaters and hubs extend
a network rather than segment a network. In fact, repeaters were introduced to increase or
extend the distance between end nodes. A repeater consists of a transmitter and a receiver.
When a signal is received by the repeater, it amplifies the signal and then retransmits. This
effectively enables the signal to travel over a greater distance.
Please note that repeaters are an outdated technology. A separate device is no longer needed
to perform this functionality. Both active hubs and switches can be used in place of a repeater.

05_0789735199_CH02.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 69

69

Physical Layer Devices

Hubs
A hub can be defined as a multiple port repeater. A hub consists of 2 to 24 ports and may be
called a workgroup hub. When data is received, the hub then retransmits that data out on all the
other ports. Physical connectivity is achieved via a twisted-pair cable.
There are active and passive hubs. Active hubs have a separate power supply to assist with the
gain of a signal before it is forwarded out all connected ports. Gain is an electrical term used
to identify the ratio of signal output to signal input of a system. A power signal increased by a
factor of 10 would indicate a gain of 10. Passive hubs do not regenerate the incoming signal.
Although they are very inexpensive, hubs may not be the best solution if you require a more
efficient use of bandwidth and its distribution among ports. Traffic may become congested
because of collisions on the network. Traffic is being forwarded out on all ports of a single collision domain. To decrease congestion, the network administrator might consider replacing
the hub with a switch.

TIP
Know that a viable solution to decrease network congestion is replacing a hub with a switch. A switch creates a separate collision domain for each network segment.

Network Interfaces
A network interface provides connectivity from an end-user PC or laptop to the public network. Depending on the interface, you might see up to three light-emitting diodes (LEDs)
that help to determine the connection’s status. The link light LED should light up if you have
connectivity. The activity light LED should flicker if there is activity on the line. There may
also be a speed light LED that is used to verify the connection speed in a 10/100/1000Mbps
network. Blinking lights and colors other than green can indicate error conditions that can be
investigated by a technician.

06_0789735199_CH03.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 84

84

Chapter 3: Data Link Networking Concepts

Introduction
Several data link networking concepts were first introduced in the discussion of the Data Link
layer or Layer 2 of the OSI model in Chapter 1, “Standard Internetworking Models.” Again,
it is important to understand the layered architecture of the OSI model to grasp the fundamentals of how a network operates. Although Chapter 2, “Physical Layer Networking
Concepts,” went over concepts that define the Physical layer of the OSI model, this chapter
goes over concepts that define how a network operates at the Data Link layer specifically.
Important Data Link LAN topics to understand for the CCNA exam include the protocols,
addressing, and devices that are used at Layer 2. Cisco specified several objectives related to
LAN technologies, which are prevalent at Layer 1 and Layer 2. Let’s begin with three Data
Link layer protocols: token ring, FDDI, and ethernet.

NOTE
Remember that the Physical and Data Link layers are combined in the TCP/IP model to form the Network
Interface layer.

Data Link Protocols
Objective:

Compare and contrast key characteristics of LAN environments
In this section, you will learn about network protocols that can be utilized at the Data Link
layer of the OSI model. These protocols include token ring, FDDI, and ethernet. Ethernet
Data Link protocols are broken out into addressing and framing standards.

Token Ring
Token ring is a LAN protocol that utilizes a token-passing media access technology in a physical ring or physical star topology, which creates a logical ring topology. This protocol was
first developed by IBM but then standardized by IEEE with the 802.5 specification. With
token-passing, a three-byte token (or special bit pattern) is inserted in a frame and passed in
a single direction from one node to another until it forms a complete loop. The node that has
possession of the token is the only one that can send data at any given time on that LAN.
Because only one node can send data at a time, collisions are avoided.
Rather than using a hub or switch, Token ring uses a multistation access unit (MAU) to send
a token across the network. The MAU has Ring In (RI) and Ring Out (RO) ports. The RO
of the first MAU is connected to the RI of the next MAU. This continues until the final MAU,

06_0789735199_CH03.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 85

85

Data Link Protocols

which connects back to the first MAU RI port via its own RO port. As mentioned, a logical
ring is created with this setup. Figure 3.1 shows how a token ring network operates with
MAUs.



A token ring LAN can run at either 4Mbps or 16Mbps. Each device must be configured for
the same speed; otherwise the token-passing does not work at all. Overall, although this protocol provides a collision-free network, it is also more expensive to implement than ethernet.
This is a major reason why ethernet is the most popular Data Link layer protocol, making
token ring a rather distant second.
Let’s recap what you’ve learned about token ring:
. Standardized by the IEEE 802.5 specification
. A token-passing media access technology
. Set up as a physical ring or physical star topology
. Creates a logical ring topology
. Speeds are assigned as either 4Mbps or 16Mbps
. Utilizes an MSAU rather than a switch or hub
. Provides collision-free data transfer
. High overhead

06_0789735199_CH03.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 86

86

Chapter 3: Data Link Networking Concepts

FDDI
FDDI is a LAN protocol that utilizes a token-passing media access method on a dual ring
topology. This protocol was created by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI)
with the ANSI X3T9.5 specification. Data transmission occurs on fiber-optic cables at a rate
of 100Mbps. Primarily, FDDI was developed to run data across the network backbone of a
larger company. Dual ring is configured for FDDI to provide redundancy and fault-tolerance.
Also, because it runs over fiber it is not susceptible to EMI like other media options. NOTE
Copper Distributed Data Interface (CDDI) is a 100Mbps token-passing protocol that runs over copper wire
rather than fiber-optic cable.

FDDI uses a method called beaconing to signal when a failure is detected on the network.
Beaconing enables a device to send a signal informing the other devices on that LAN that
token passing has stopped. The beacon travels around the loop from one device to the next
until it reaches the last device in that ring. To troubleshoot, the network administrator can
find the beacon at that last device and then check the connection between that device and the
next connected device on the FDDI network.
Like token ring, FDDI is costly to implement, which is a disadvantage when designing a small
network.
Let’s recap what you’ve learned about FDDI:
. Developed by ANSI with the ANSI X3T9.5 specification
. A token-passing media access technology

06_0789735199_CH03.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 87

87

Data Link Protocols
. Set up as a dual ring topology
. Redundant, fault-tolerant network
. Speed is 100Mbps
. Runs over fiber-optic cable
. Not susceptible to EMI
. Provides collision-free data transfer
. Fault-detection provided by beaconing
. High overhead

Ethernet at the Data Link Layer
Objective:

Describe network communications using layered models
Ethernet, ethernet, ethernet…
The most popular LAN by a mile, ethernet is a group of protocols and standards that work at
either the Physical or Data Link layer of the OSI model. This section covers ethernet technology that is relevant to Layer 2. Ethernet is defined by the IEEE 802.3 specification. As
technology advancements occur, IEEE has defined additional classifications of 802.3, which
include Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, 10-Gigabit Ethernet, and Long Reach Ethernet. The
physical implementations of each Ethernet standard are covered in greater detail in a moment,
but first I would like to review ethernet addressing and ethernet framing. Ethernet addressing
can be achieved with unicast, multicast, or broadcast addresses at the Data Link layer.

Ethernet Addressing
The Data Link layer uses physical or hardware addressing to make sure data is delivered to the
appropriate end device in a LAN. Physical addresses or what are commonly referred to as
MAC addresses are used at Layer 2. Before you go any further, it’s a good idea to take a minute
to review what you learned in Chapter 1.
The Data Link layer of the OSI model is the only one that has sublayers. Table 3.1 shows the
breakout of Layer 2.

06_0789735199_CH03.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 88

88

Chapter 3: Data Link Networking Concepts

TABLE 3.1

Data Link Layer and Sublayers

OSI Model Layer

Sublayer

Data Link Layer

Media Access Control (MAC) IEEE 802.3
Logical Link Control (LLC) IEEE 802.2

A MAC address is hard-coded (burnt in) on the network interface controller (NIC) of the
Physical Layer device attached to the network. Each MAC address must be unique and use the
following format:
. The address must consist of 48 bits (or 6 bytes).
. It must be displayed by 12 hexadecimal digits (0–9, A–F).
. The first 6 hexadecimal digits in the address are a vendor code or organizationally

unique identifier (OUI) assigned to that NIC manufacturer.
. The last 6 hexadecimal digits are assigned by the NIC manufacturer and must be dif-

ferent from any other number assigned by that manufacturer.
An example of a MAC address would be 00:00:07:A9:B2:EB. The OUI in this example is
00:00:07.

EXAM ALERT
MAC Address Structure Know that a MAC address consists of 48 bits and is expressed as 12 hexadecimal digits from either 0–9 or A–F. Also, know that the vendor code or OUI is the first 6 hexadecimal
digits of the MAC address.

NOTE
Check out an actual example of a physical address on your own PC. From the Start menu, select Run.
Then type in cmd to enter the command prompt for your PC. You should see a new window open on the
screen where you can type in ipconfig /all at the prompt. Among other things, the output includes
the physical or MAC address of your PC.

Ethernet LAN addresses can be broken down into two subcategories: individual and group
addresses. An individual address is referred to as a unicast address. A unicast address identifies
the MAC address of an individual LAN or NIC card. The source address on an ethernet
frame will always be a unicast address. When a packet from the Network layer is framed for
transport and is being forwarded to a single destination, a unicast address is also the destination address on an ethernet frame. Figure 3.3 represents an example of frame forwarding
between a unicast source and a unicast destination device. Cisco devices typically use three

06_0789735199_CH03.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 89

89

Data Link Protocols

groups of four hexadecimal digits separated by periods, such as 0000.0C12.3456. Cisco’s OUI
is 0000.0C.
Group Ethernet LAN addresses classify more than one LAN or NIC card. Multicast and
broadcast addresses are both classified as group addresses and can be described as follows:
. Multicast addresses—Addresses where a frame can be sent to a group of devices in

the same LAN. IEEE ethernet multicast addresses always begin with 0100.5E in hexadecimal format. The last three bytes can be any combination of hexadecimal digits.
The IP routed protocol supports multicast addressing with three groups of four hexadecimal digits separated by periods (like Cisco devices), so it appears as
0100.5Exx.xxxx, where the x’s can represent any hex digit from 0–9 or A–F. Figure 3.4
shows a frame that is being forwarded from a unicast source to an IP multicast destination address.

Chapter 3: Data Link Networking Concepts

In this example, the switch sends a frame from its own unicast address to the multicast
address of 0100.5E12.3456. Each device in that LAN segment checks the destination
address to see whether it should be processed. Although Bill and Carol’s computer will
review and process the frame, Dustin’s does not care about it and therefore drops the
frame.
. Broadcast addresses—Addresses where a frame is sent to all devices in the same LAN

segment. Multicast and broadcast addresses are limited to a LAN or network segment.
Broadcast addresses are always the same value, which is FFFF.FFFF.FFFF. Figure 3.5
shows a switch sending a frame to the destination address FFFF.FFFF.FFFF. Because
this is the broadcast address value, all the devices in that LAN should process the
frame.

EXAM ALERT
The broadcast address value is FFFF.FFFF.FFFF.
Ethernet Framing
As you will recall from Chapter 1, data traverses the layers of the OSI model and is encapsulated from layer to layer.
Table 3.3 shows the process of using the OSI model to encapsulate data.
TABLE 3.3

OSI Model Layer and Related Control Information

OSI Layer

Control Information Name

Application
Presentation
Session

Data

Transport

Segment

Network

Packet

Data Link

Frame

Physical

Bit

EXAM ALERT
The correct order for data encapsulation is data, segment, packet, frame, and bit.

The Data Link layer uses frames to transport data between layers. Framing is the process of
interpreting data that is either received or sent out across the network. The 802.2 LLC Data
Link sublayer is an extension of 802.3 and is responsible for framing, error-detection, and flow
control. Figure 3.6 represents an 802.3 frame.


EXAM ALERT
For the CCNA exam, review the structure of the 802.3 frame, specifically, the Destination/Source MAC
address fields of the data-link header, the DSAP/SSAP fields of the LLC portion of the frame, and the
FCS field of the Data and CRC data-link trailer.

The three main parts of an 802.3 frame can be broken down and described as follows:
. The Data Link header portion of the frame contains the destination MAC address

(6 bytes), source MAC address (6 bytes), and length (2 bytes).
. The Logical Link Control portion of the frame contains Destination Service Access

Point (DSAP), Source Service Access Point (SSAP), and control information. All three
are 1 byte long. The Service Access Point (SAP) identifies an upper-layer protocol such
as IP (06) or IPX (E0).
. The data and cyclical redundancy check (CRC) portion of the frame is also called the

data-link trailer. The data field can be anywhere from 43 to 1497 bytes long. The
frame check sequence (FCS) field is 4 bytes long. FCS or CRC provides error detection.
Error detection is used to determine whether bit errors happened during frame transmission.
The sender and receiver of a frame use the same mathematical formula to analyze the information in the FCS field of the data-link trailer. If the calculations match up, there were no
errors on that frame transmission.

EXAM ALERT
The FCS field of a frame is used for error detection.

06_0789735199_CH03.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 93

93

Physical Ethernet Standards

I mentioned how the SAP in the 802.3 frame identifies an upper-layer protocol with 1 byte or
2 hexadecimal digits. The IP SAP is 06. Well, it turns out that 1 byte was insufficient for the
number of protocols that need to be recognized by an 802.3 frame. To accommodate the influx
of protocols, IEEE permitted for an additional header in the 802.3 frame called a Subnetwork
Access Protocol (SNAP) header.
The SNAP header serves the same purpose as the DSAP field; however, it consists of 2 bytes.
For example, 0800 is the hexadecimal format assigned to IP with SNAP. RFC 1700 identifies
all the values that are associated with SAP and SNAP.

Physical Ethernet Standards
Objective:

Describe the components of network devices
Have I said that ethernet is the most popular LAN protocol? Ethernet started in the 1970s
when Xerox needed a networking system to connect personal computers. Xerox joined forces
with Digital Equipment Corp. (DEC) and Intel to develop the protocol, which is why the very
first ethernet standards were referred to as DIX Ethernet. This section covers the progression
of ethernet standards from the earlier 10Mbps connections to the more recent 10 gigabit ethernet connections.

06_0789735199_CH03.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 94

94

Chapter 3: Data Link Networking Concepts

Each standard has a maximum connection length and speed. Individual ethernet standards
also specify which cables and connectors can be used for network connectivity. You will be
introduced to each group of standards starting with the 10Mbps ethernet connections, then
the 100Mbps Fast Ethernet connections, 1Gbps ethernet, and 10Gbps ethernet connections.

Ethernet
The IEEE 802.3 ethernet standards are covered in the following sections. The following list
contains all the ethernet standards that are covered in this chapter, in order.
. 10BASE-2
. 10BASE-5
. 10BASE-T
. 10BASE-FL
. 100BaseT4
. 100BaseTX
. 100BaseFX
. 1000BaseT
. 1000BaseTX
. 1000BaseCX
. 1000BaseSX
. 1000BaseLX
. 10GbE

10BASE-2
10BASE-2 networks are connected with RG-58 coaxial cables that use Bayonet Neill
Concelman (BNC) connectors. There are no other hardware devices such as hubs or switches
to connect devices, just the coaxial cables. This creates a physical bus topology. An electrical
signal is sent by each device that wants to transmit data on that network. If more than one
device sends a signal at the same time, this causes a collision and the signal is lost. To prevent
loss of data transmissions, an algorithm called Carrier Sense Multiple Access Collision Detection
(CSMA/CD) was defined. This algorithm sends a jam signal to notify the devices that there has
been a collision. The devices then halt transmission for a random back-off time. CSMA/CD
must be activated for 10Base ethernet LANs that are connected with a hub.

06_0789735199_CH03.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 95

95

Physical Ethernet Standards

EXAM ALERT
For the exam, know the definition of CSMA/CD and its capability to act as an arbitrator for devices in
an ethernet LAN.

The name 10BASE-2 breaks down as follows:
10—10Mbps data transmission speed
Base—Represents baseband, the signaling mode where the media can only send one signal per
wire at a time
2—Actually refers to 185m or the maximum segment length (where 185 is rounded up to 200
and 2 is a multiple of 100m)

NOTE
So what you can see from the naming scheme is that the first number represents the speed, the word
base means the baseband signaling mode, and the last helps you determine the type of cable used.

10BASE-5
10BASE-5 has the same characteristics as 10BASE-2, but with a maximum segment length of
500m. The 5 is also a multiple of 100m.

10BASE-T
10BASE-T has a maximum segment length of 100m and has a 10Mbps data transmission
speed. 10BASE-T can use Category 3, 4, or 5 unshielded twisted-pair (UTP) or shielded
twisted-pair (STP) cables for connectivity. If you recall, UTP is the more common and costeffective solution. STP has an additional shield that provides additional reduction of interference and attenuation, but it is also the more expensive solution. The following cables can be
used with a 10BASE-T connection:
. Category 3—Data cable that can handle speeds up to 10Mbps.

Although it is faster than the Cat2 cable, this was quite popular until network speeds
surpassed the 10Mbps threshold.
. Category 4—Data cable that can handle speeds up to 16Mbps and is meant to be

used with token ring LANs.
. Category 5—Data cable that can handle speeds up to 100Mbps and is currently the

most popular cable selection.

06_0789735199_CH03.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 96

96

Chapter 3: Data Link Networking Concepts

EXAM ALERT
UTP is vulnerable to electromagnetic interference (EMI) and uses an RJ-45 connector.

10BASE-FL
10BASE-FL also has a 10Mbps data transmission speed, but it runs over fiber-optic cables.
This option allows for a maximum segment length up to 2km.
Table 3.4 compares the 802.3 ethernet characteristics, listing the key characteristics of each
specification.

Fast Ethernet
Fast Ethernet was derived for networks that needed speeds in excess of 10Mbps. The IEEE
802.3u defines standards for 100BaseT4, 100BaseTX, and 100BaseFX. You may also hear
them collectively referred to as 100BaseX. Based on what you learned from the 10Base naming scheme, you would be correct to infer that the 100 represents 100Mbps. Also, all three
standards are baseband like the 10Mbps family of protocols.

NOTE
Fast Ethernet is defined in the IEEE 802.3u standard.

100BaseT4
100BaseT4 has the same characteristics as 100BaseTX except that it can use Category 3, 4, or
5 UTP or STP cables.



Physical Ethernet Standards

100BaseTX
100BaseTX, like 10BASE-T, uses either UTP or STP. Category 5 UTP cable is used with this
implementation. 10BASE-T has a maximum segment length of 100m.

100BaseFX
100BaseFX uses either single-mode or multimode fiber-optic cables to connect. Multimode
(MM) fiber set for half-duplex can reach a distance of 412m. Single-mode (SM) fiber set for
full-duplex can reach a distance of 10,000m. SC or ST connectors can be used. The drawback,
as mentioned before with fiber implementations, is the high overhead.
. Multimode (MM) fiber—This is generally used for shorter distances and is ideal for a

campus-sized network. MM also has a larger diameter of optical fiber than SM fiber.
. Single-mode (SM) fiber—This mode is used to span longer distances. SM also allows

for a higher data rate than MM and faster data transmission speeds.

EXAM ALERT
Fiber-optic cable is not susceptible to EMI, Near-end Crosstalk (NEXT), or Far-end Crosstalk (FEXT).

REVIEW BREAK
Table 3.5 compares Fast Ethernet 802.3u standards.
TABLE 3.5

Comparison of Fast Ethernet 802.3u Characteristics

Standard

Speed

Maximum Distance

Media Type

Connector Used

100BaseT4

100Mbps

100m

Category 3, 4, or 5 UTP or STP

RJ-45

100BaseTX

100Mbps

100m

Category 5 UTP or STP

RJ-45

100BaseFX

100Mbps

412m with half-duplex
MM fiber

Fiber-optic

SC or ST

10,000m with full-duplex
SM fiber

Gigabit Ethernet
Gigabit Ethernet standards all have a data transmission speed of 1000Mbps (1Gbps) and use
a baseband signaling mode. Gigabit Ethernet can be broken down into two IEEE standards,
802.3ab or 1000BaseT and 802.3z or 1000BaseX.

06_0789735199_CH03.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 98

98

Chapter 3: Data Link Networking Concepts

1000BaseT 802.3ab
1000BaseT or 1000BaseTX is defined by the 802.3ab standard and can reach a maximum total
distance per segment of 75m. This standard uses a minimum of Category 5 UTP cable with
an RJ-45 connector.
. Category 5e—Data cable that can handle speeds up to 1Gbps; a popular choice for

Gigabit Ethernet networks.
. Category 6—Cable that was created to exceed speeds of 1Gbps.

Table 3.6 summarizes the primary points of interest that are relevant for the 1000BaseT standard.
TABLE 3.6

Summary of Gigabit Ethernet 802.3ab Characteristics

Standard

Speed

Maximum Distance

Media Type

Connector Used

1000BaseT or

1000Mbps or 1Gbps

75m

Category 5 UTP or higher RJ-45

1000BaseTX

1000BaseX 802.3z
1000BaseX is the collective name for 802.3z standards 1000BaseCX, 1000BaseSX, and
1000BaseLX that have the following characteristics respectively:
. 1000BaseCX—1000BaseCX is the unique standard in this family because it uses

shielded copper wire cable with a 9-pin shielded connector instead of fiber-optic cable
for connectivity. The maximum total distance per segment is a mere 25m.
. 1000BaseSX—1000BaseSX transmits short-wavelength laser over fiber-optic cable.

Either 50-micron or 62.5-micron (diameter) MM fiber can be used with this option.
Lengths may vary depending on the type of MM fiber and duplex chosen for each connection as follows:
. Half-duplex 62.5-micron MM fiber connections can reach a maximum segment

length of 275m.
. Half-duplex 50-micron MM fiber connections can reach a maximum segment

length of 316m.
. Full-duplex 62.5-micron MM fiber connections can reach a maximum segment

length of 275m.
. Full-duplex 50-micron MM fiber connections can reach a maximum segment

length of 550m.

06_0789735199_CH03.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 99

99

Physical Ethernet Standards

As you can see, the 50-micron MM fiber can offer longer segment distances. The 62.5micron MM fiber reaches the same maximum segment length of 275m regardless of
the duplex.
. 1000BaseLX—1000BaseLX transmits long-wavelength laser over fiber-optic cable.

Either 50-micron or 62.5-micron (diameter) MM fiber can be used with this option.
SM fiber can also be used with 1000BaseLX, which differentiates this standard from
1000BaseSX. The same MM fiber length restrictions apply based on the implementation of half- or full-duplex. The following lengths apply when SM fiber is used:
. Half-duplex SM fiber connections can reach a maximum segment length of 316m.
. Full-duplex SM fiber connections can reach a maximum segment length of 5000m.

Using full-duplex SM fiber allows for a huge increase in distance. As you can imagine,
this is also the more expensive option.
Table 3.7 compares Fast Ethernet 802.3z standards.
TABLE 3.7

Comparison of Gigabit Ethernet 802.3z Characteristics

Standard

Speed

Maximum Distance

Media Type

Connector Used

1000BaseCX

1000Mbps or 1Gbps

25m

Shielded copper wire

9-pin shielded
connector

1000BaseSX

1000Mbps or 1Gbps

275m with half or
MM fiber-optic
full-duplex 62.5-micron
MM fiber

SC or ST

316m with half-duplex
50-micron MM fiber
550m with full-duplex
50-micron MM fiber
1000BaseLX

1000Mbps or 1Gbps

275m with half- or
MM or SM fiber-optic
full-duplex 62.5-micron
MM fiber
316m with half-duplex
50-micron MM fiber or
SM fiber
550m with full-duplex
50-micron MM fiber
5000m with full-duplex
SM fiber

SC or ST

06_0789735199_CH03.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 100

100

Chapter 3: Data Link Networking Concepts

EXAM ALERT
Gigabit Ethernet comprises the 802.3ab and the 802.3z standards.

10-Gigabit Ethernet (10GbE)
You guessed it: 1Gbps just wasn’t a fast enough option. Actually, it is just the nature of technology to constantly strive for faster speeds. Yet another new standard was defined by IEEE
and labeled 802.3ae. Earlier in this chapter you saw 10BASE-2, which has data transmission
speeds of 10Mbps. 10-Gigabit Ethernet transmits data at 10,000Mbps. That is quite an
upgrade! IEEE 802.3ae uses 62.5-micron MM, 50-micron MM, or SM fiber-optic cabling for
connectivity and a baseband signaling mode.

NOTE
All of the ethernet standards, regardless of their speed, use the same 802.3 MAC and 802.2 LLC headers
and trailers.

Long Reach Ethernet
Cisco Long Reach Ethernet (LRE) was developed to provide broadband service over existing
telephone-grade or Category 1, 2, or 3 wiring. Speeds vary between 5–15Mbps and can reach
a maximum segment length of up to 5000m. Cisco LRE may be a viable networking solution
for a LAN or MAN that already has Category 1/2/3 cabling installed. A hotel could benefit
from Cisco LRE to provide high-speed Internet or video conferencing solutions to their
clientele.

NOTE
Broadband is a signaling method that supports various frequencies such as audio and video.

Data Link Layer Devices
Objective:

Design a simple LAN using Cisco technology
At the Data Link layer, either a bridge or a Layer 2 switch can be installed to segment a LAN.
Hubs and repeaters at the Physical layer only serve to extend a network. With segmentation,

06_0789735199_CH03.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 101

101

Data Link Layer Devices

switches and bridges create a separate collision domain for each connected node, which effectively reduces the number of collisions that occur on that network.
Remember from Chapter 1 that a collision domain is a group of nodes that shares the same
media and are segmented by switches or bridges. A collision occurs if two nodes attempt a
simultaneous transmission within the same collision domain. This reinforces the need for an
increased number of collision domains.

EXAM ALERT
Know what a collision domain is and that a bridge and/or switch will segment a network and create an
additional collision domain for each segment. Routers not only segment collision domains, but they
also segment broadcast domains.

Bridges
Bridges were created to alleviate several expansion-related network issues. As networks were
growing and becoming more complex, hubs and repeaters no longer provided sufficient network resources. Because they do not segment the network, all the devices connected to a hub
or repeater had to share the same bandwidth. Also, if one device sent a frame it could collide
with a frame from another device on that LAN. This meant that all devices on that LAN had
to take turns sending frames. Again, this is not very efficient as additional devices are added to
a network.
Transparent bridges were introduced and helped solve these growing pains. The word transparent is used to indicate that the other devices on a network are not aware of its existence.
Bridges use a software application to forward frames.
The following are the primary tasks performed by both bridges and switches:
. The source MAC address of every inbound frame is examined to learn its MAC

address.
. Frames may either be forwarded or filtered depending on the destination MAC address

(they can also be flooded if the destination is unknown).
. Eliminates loops that are caused by redundant connections by configuring Spanning

Tree Protocol (STP).
Learned MAC addresses and their interfaces are stored in a bridge table on the bridge or switch.
When a new frame arrives on that bridge or switch, the device refers to the bridge table to
decide how to forward or filter the frame. If the frame’s destination MAC address is on a different segment of that LAN, the device forwards the frame to that segment. If the frame’s destination MAC address is on the same segment as the source MAC address, the device filters
the frame. That frame reaches its destination without the assistance of a bridge or switch.
Figure 3.9 shows a segmented LAN with the MAC addresses of each end user.
As frames are received by the bridge or switch from each end user, it updates its bridge table
with their MAC addresses and the interface on which the frame came into the device. Table
3.8 shows the bridge table of this bridge.


If the incoming frame destination address is…
. Unicast—The bridge checks the bridge table first. If the destination unicast address is

not in the bridge table, it forwards the frame to all interfaces except for the interface
that originally sent the frame. If the destination unicast address is in the bridge table
and on a different interface than the interface that originally sent the frame, it forwards
the frame. If the destination unicast address is in the bridge table and on the same
interface as the sender, the frame is filtered.
. Multicast—The bridge forwards the frame to all interfaces except for the interface

that originally sent the frame.
. Broadcast—The bridge forwards the frame to all interfaces except for the interface

that originally sent the frame.

06_0789735199_CH03.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 104

104

Chapter 3: Data Link Networking Concepts
EXAM ALERT
Bridges and switches examine the source MAC address of each inbound frame to learn MAC
addresses.

Switches
Layer 2 switches are multi-port bridges; therefore, they have all the same functionality of
bridges. There are differences that differentiate a switch from a bridge. For example, switches utilize hardware or Application-Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) chips to forward frames
rather than software. Also, each port of the switch has a dedicated bandwidth. If the dedicated port on a switch is 10Mbps, the connected LAN segment has a dedicated bandwidth of
10Mbps. This works in the same manner for 100Mbps and 1000Mbps dedicated switch ports.
This feature also sets a switch apart from a bridge that has a low port density.

EXAM ALERT
For the test, know that switches are multi-port bridges that use ASIC hardware chips for frame forwarding. Dedicated bandwidth enables the switch port to guarantee the speed assigned to that port. For
example, 100Mbps port connections get 100Mbps transmission rates.

A popular ethernet switch port is the 10/100 ethernet port, where you can set the port to pass
traffic at 10Mbps or 100Mbps. Chapter 4, “IP at the Network Layer,” goes into more detail
regarding specific Cisco devices, including the 2950 series switches.


Chapter 3: Data Link Networking Concepts


NOTE
Chapter 8 elaborates on the general concepts that are put forth in this chapter.

Duplex
It is important that you understand duplex logic and how it affects traffic on a network. The
communication mode of a device may either be half-duplex or full-duplex, depending on the
connection type.
Half-duplex allows for one-way communication, which means that a device can only send or
receive a data transmission at any given time. This option does not allow for simultaneously
sending and receiving data. As part of a shared collision domain, hubs are inherently set up
for half-duplex. Bandwidth suffers because a collision detection technology such as the
CSMA/CD algorithm must be implemented. Collision detection can chew up 50–60% of the
bandwidth on that ethernet LAN.
Full-duplex allows for two-way communication, which means that a device can simultaneously send and receive data transmissions. Full-duplex is available with dedicated switch port connections to a single device. If a switch port connection is configured for full-duplex, the
CSMA/CD algorithm must be disabled. An ethernet connection set for full-duplex allows for
100% transmission speeds in both directions. For example, a 100Mbps connection can transmit data simultaneously at 100Mbps in each direction.

Microsegmentation

With ethernet, if a switch port and NIC offer multiple speed options as well as half- and fullduplex settings, autonegotiation can be configured on both devices. The switch and NIC automatically negotiate the connection speed and duplex so that the settings on both ends match.
You may have heard of a 10/half or 100/full connection before. The term 10/half refers to a
10Mbps half-duplex connection. It is more likely that you will see 100/full, which indicates a
100Mbps full-duplex connection.

NOTE
Autonegotiation may not always be a reliable option. There have been some instances where the switch
port goes into error disable mode because of massive errors. Configuring or “hard coding” the port and
NIC to the appropriate speed and duplex settings may resolve the issue when the port is reactivated.

EXAM ALERT
Hubs use half-duplex technology. Switches can be set up for full-duplex.

Microsegmentation
Microsegmentation occurs when a switch creates a dedicated path for sending and receiving
transmissions with each connected host. Each host then has a separate collision domain and a
dedicated bandwidth.

Chapter 3: Data Link Networking Concepts

Chapter Summary
Many important functions occur at the Data Link layer of the OSI model. Different technologies can be implemented at Layer 2 to transmit data across the network. Token ring and
FDDI networks use token-passing to send frames, whereas ethernet uses the 802.3 frame standard with 802.2 LLC specifications. Ethernet framing and ethernet addressing are both significant topics for the CCNA exam. Other key ethernet functions include error detection and
arbitration. Although the FCS field of the 802.3 frame detects errors on a LAN, the
CSMA/CD algorithm arbitrates how data is transmitted on a LAN.
Data Link layer devices include bridges and switches. Switches are really multi-port bridges,
so they share the same general functionalities. New networks are most likely to use a Layer 2
switch in place of a bridge. Switches have been improved upon over the years and offer more
options for the consumer, such as dedicated bandwidth and full-duplex communications.
Although the Data Link layer uses frames to transmit data, the Network layer uses Internet
Protocol or IP addresses to route traffic. Chapter 4 discusses IP addressing and subnetting at
length. Both topics are imperative for the CCNA exam.
Chapter 4: IP at the Network Layer

Introduction
This chapter elaborates on the fundamental concepts that you learned about the Network
layer or Layer 3 of the OSI model in Chapter 1, “Standard Internetworking Models.” It
reviews the primary functions of the Network layer and then moves right into IP addressing
and formats. After you are familiar with address formats and how to convert between them, it
reviews subnetting. No matter whether you decide to take the one- or two-test approach to
the CCNA certification, you have to know IP address formats and subnetting. They are integral concepts to any Cisco certification. Finally, this chapter discusses network devices that are
used at the Network layer, which are routers and Layer 3 switches.

Network Layer Functions
The Network layer of the OSI model serves two primary functions:
. Determines the best path selection for a packet based on a logical or virtual address on

the network (routing)
. Handles ICMP, ARP, and Proxy ARP requests

First, best path determination is made at the Network layer for packet delivery across the network. Routed protocols such as IP are used to define logical addressing, which can identify the
destination of a packet or datagram. Logical addresses used for routing consist of network and
host bits. Routers also must determine the path through the internetwork for packet transmission. This is similar to how switches use a MAC address and interface for frame delivery.
Routers also use an interface along with the logical or IP address.
Second, the Network layer also handles ICMP, ARP, and Proxy ARP requests on the internetwork. Remember the function of each protocol for the CCNA exam.
Internet Control Messaging Protocol (ICMP) is used by ping and traceroute utilities. Packet
Internet Groper (ping) enables you to validate that an IP address exists and can accept requests.
. Ping is an echo and the response is an echo response.
. Routers send Destination Unreachable messages when they can’t reach the destination

network and they are forced to drop the packet. The router that drops the packet sends
the ICMP DU message.
A traceroute traces the route or path taken from a client to a remote host. Traceroute also
reports the IP addresses of the routers at each next hop on the way to the destination. This is
especially useful when you suspect that a router on the route to an unreachable network is
responsible for dropping the packet.

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 123

123

IP Addressing and Formats

Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) maps a known IP address to a MAC address by sending a
broadcast ARP. When the destination IP address is on another subnet, the sender broadcasts
ARP for the router’s ethernet port or default gateway, so the MAC address sent back will be
that of the router’s ethernet port.
Reverse ARP (RARP) maps a known MAC address to an IP address.
Proxy ARP enables a router to respond to an ARP request that has been sent to a remote host.
Some Unix machines (especially Solaris) rely on Proxy ARP versus default gateways.

IP Addressing and Formats
Objective:

Design an IP addressing scheme to meet design requirements
Internet Protocol (IP) uses logical or virtual addressing to get a packet from a source to its destination. At the Network layer, routers use IP addresses to make best path forwarding decisions. Public IP addresses are used for packets destined for the outside world, whereas private
addresses can be used if the packet needs to traverse only an internal network. The CCNA
course focuses on IP version 4 (IPv4). The addresses themselves are assigned by the Internet
Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) to individual organizations based on a request for IP
address space. Because the total number of IPv4 addresses is not infinite, strict guidelines are
placed on IP space requests to ensure that they are justifiable.
IPv4 addresses
. Consist of 32-bits.
. Are broken down into four octets (8 bits each).
. Use dotted decimal format: for example, 172.16.122.204.
. Have a minimum value (per octet) of 0 and a maximum value of 255.
. Have a Network ID of 0.0.0.0.
. Have a Broadcast IP of 255.255.255.255.

Another IP version was created in the event that the IP space from IPv4 is exhausted. That
version is called IP version 6 (IPv6). IPv6 has emerged in the Cisco professional-level exams
and may appear on a future CCNA exam. For this reason, IPv6 is introduced in Appendix A,
“Future Exam Topics.”

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 124

124

Chapter 4: IP at the Network Layer

Binary
To understand IP addressing, you must first understand binary. Binary is a computer language
that is represented by a bit value of 0 or 1. A 32-bit binary address would resemble
10101010101010101010101010101010. Those 32 bits can be grouped into 4 octets, or
10101010 10101010 10101010 10101010, for conversion to decimal format. When the bit
value is 1, the bit is considered to be on and you can calculate its binary value depending on
its placement within the binary octet. When the bit value is 0, the bit is off and has no corresponding binary value. Figure 4.1 displays the binary value and the calculated decimal value of
each bit within an octet. Notice that the binary value increases exponentially.
Binary
Value

27

26

25

24

23

22

21

20

Decimal
Value

128

64

32

16

8

4

2

1

A list of binary and decimal
conversion values.

FIGURE 4.1

Converting Binary to Decimal
By using the value calculated for each bit you can easily convert to decimal format. Line up
the binary octet with the decimal value that was calculated in Figure 4.1. To calculate the total
decimal value of each octet, you would add up the binary value of each bit that is on (1).
The example in Table 4.1 uses binary octet 00000000.
TABLE 4.1

Example #1 of a Binary-to-Decimal Conversion

Bit Value

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

Decimal Value

128

64

32

16

8

4

2

1

In this case, all the bit values are off (0), so there is no corresponding decimal value. The IP
address octet value is also 0.
Table 4.2 uses binary octet 00010001.
TABLE 4.2

Example #2 of a Binary-to-Decimal Conversion

Bit Value

0

0

0

1

0

0

0

1

Decimal Value

128

64

32

16

8

4

2

1

16

1

In this example, the fourth and last bit values are 1. Add the decimal values to get the total
decimal value of that octet. That is, the total decimal value = 17 (16 + 1).
Table 4.3 uses binary octet 11111111.

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 125

125

IP Addressing and Formats

TABLE 4.3

Example #3 of a Binary-to-Decimal Conversion

Bit Value

1

Decimal Value

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

128

64

32

16

8

4

2

1

128

64

32

16

8

4

2

1

In Table 4.3, the total decimal value = 255 (128 + 64 + 32 + 16 + 8 + 4 + 2 + 1).
In this case, all the bit values are on (1), so all the decimal values are added together to calculate the IP address octet. The IP address octet value is 255.
Now, you can convert a 32-bit binary address into a dotted decimal address. In this example
the binary address is 10101010 01010101 11000011 00111100. Start with the first octet
10110000. Table 4.4 shows the conversion of 10101010 from binary to decimal value.
TABLE 4.4

Binary-to-Decimal Conversion of 10101010

Bit Value

1

0

1

1

0

0

0

0

Decimal Value

128

64

32

16

8

4

2

1

32

16

128

In Table 4.4, the total decimal value = 176 (128 + 32 + 16).
The second octet is 01010101. Table 4.5 shows the conversion of 01010101 from binary to
decimal value.
TABLE 4.5

Binary-to-Decimal Conversion of 01010101

Bit Value

0

1

0

1

0

1

0

1

Decimal Value

128

64

32

16

8

4

2

1

64

16

4

1

In Table 4.5, the IP octet value = 85 (64 + 16 + 4 + 1).
The third octet is 11000011. Table 4.6 shows the conversion of 11000011 from binary to decimal value.
TABLE 4.6

Binary-to-Decimal Conversion of 11000011

Bit Value

1

1

0

0

0

0

1

1

Decimal Value

128

64

32

16

8

4

2

1

128

64

2

1

In Table 4.6, the total decimal value = 195 (128 + 64 + 2 + 1)

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 126

126

Chapter 4: IP at the Network Layer

The fourth and final octet is 00111100. Table 4.7 shows the conversion of 00111100 from
binary to decimal value.
TABLE 4.7

Binary-to-Decimal Conversion of 00111100

Bit Value

0

0

1

1

1

1

0

0

Decimal Value

128

64

32

16

8

4

2

1

32

16

8

4

In Table 4.7, the total decimal value = 60 (32 + 16 + 8 + 4).
Based on these calculations, the IP address in dotted decimal format is 176.85.195.60.

EXAM ALERT
Whenever the last bit is 1, the decimal value is an odd number. Whenever the last bit is 0, the decimal
value is an even number. The CCNA exam often uses multiple-choice questions, so you may be able to
narrow down the possible correct answers quickly with this hint.


Converting Decimal to Binary
You must also be able to convert an IP address from dotted decimal format into binary. It helps
to work from left to right when converting to binary.
Example IP address = 206.110.28.62
The first octet of 206 can be broken down as follows:
128

64

32

16

8

4

2

1

1

1

0

0

1

1

1

0

The octet value is greater than 128, so the first bit is on. Subtract 128 from 206.
206 – 128 = 78
The remainder 78 is greater than 64, so the second bit is also on.
78 – 64 = 14
The remainder 14 is less than 32 and 16, so the third and fourth bits are off. However, 14 is
greater than 8, so the fifth bit is on.
14 – 8 = 6
The remainder 6 is greater than 4, so the sixth bit is on.
6–4=2
The remainder 2 is equal to the seventh bit value, so that bit is also on.
2–2=0
The last bit value is off because the remainder is 0. Remember that it is an even number, so
the last bit will always be 0!

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 128

128

Chapter 4: IP at the Network Layer


Hexadecimal
Hexadecimal is a numbering system with a base of 16. Numbers 0–9 represent the first 10 decimal digits and the next 6 digits are the letters A–F. Each hexadecimal character is equal to four
bits. Hexadecimal format was first introduced in Chapter 1, during the discussion of MAC
addresses at the Data Link layer. Figure 4.2 shows the decimal values 0–15 and their equivalent hexadecimal values.
Decimal Value

0-9

10

11

12

13

14

25

Hexadecimal Value

0-9

A

B

C

D

E

F

FIGURE 4.2

Decimal-to-hexadecimal con-

versions.

Converting Decimal to Hexadecimal
There are two ways to calculate hexadecimal from decimal format. With the first method, the
decimal value should first be converted to binary format.
Decimal value = 141
128

64

32

16

8

4

2

1

1

0

0

0

1

1

0

1

Binary value = 10010001

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 129

129

IP Addressing and Formats

Now break the binary value into two groups of four bits each, which is 1000 and 1101. Then,
line up the four bits with the last four decimal values that were calculated in Figure 4.1. Again,
add up the binary value of each bit that is on (1).
1

0

0

0

8

4

2

1

8

The combined value is 8 so the hexadecimal character = 8

1

1

0

1

8

4

2

1

8

4

1

The combined value is 13 so the hexadecimal character = D

The combined hexadecimal address is 0x8D.
The second method for calculating a hexadecimal address is to divide the decimal number by
16 first. So, 141 divided by 16 equals 8 with a remainder of 13, which matches the results from
the binary conversion in the first method.

NOTE
Recall how 8 bits for an octet equals one byte. Well, when you divide an octet into two hexadecimal fields
of 4 bits each, each 4-bit field is called a nibble.


IP Address Classes
As you know, IP addresses are 32 bits long, represented by dotted decimal notation. Each
address can be divided into two parts:
. Network
. Host

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 130

130

Chapter 4: IP at the Network Layer

The number of network octets and host octets determines the IP address class. Table 4.8 shows
the three IP defined network classes.
TABLE 4.8

IPv4 Address Classes
1st Octet

2nd Octet

3rd Octet

4th Octet

Class A

Network

Host

Host

Host

Class B

Network

Network

Host

Host

Class C

Network

Network

Network

Host

TCP/IP defines two additional address classes:
. Class D—Used for multicast addresses
. Class E—Used for research purposes

Table 4.9 lists the possible values each class network can have in the first octet. With these values you can easily identify what class network is being referenced on the exam.
TABLE 4.9

Address Class Ranges

Class

1st Octet Decimal Range

A

1–126

B

128–191

C

192–223

D

224–239

E

240–255

NOTE
The 127.x.x.x address range is reserved for loopback addresses.

EXAM ALERT
Memorize the decimal range for the first octet of each address class.

The network portion of an address maintains the same value for all the IP addresses that are
assigned from a Class A, B, or C network. Remember that one octet is equal to eight bits or

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:22 PM

Page 131

131

IP Addressing and Formats

one byte. The Class A network portion is one byte, and the host portion takes up the remaining three bytes. The Class B network portion is two bytes, with the remaining two bytes making up the host portion. The Class C network portion is three bytes, whereas the host portion
is one byte. It stands to reason that if fewer bytes are devoted to the network portion of an
address, fewer networks are possible for that class of network. With that said, the same is true
for the host portion of an address. The fewer host bytes, the fewer total hosts that are available for that class of network.
When calculating the total number of Class A, B, or C networks available, you must subtract
two from the total. This is a Cisco standard implemented for the CCNA exam. A host address
must be unique for each device or interface on a network. For each Class A, B, or C network,
there is always a network identifier (ID) and a broadcast IP address. For this reason, you must
also subtract two to calculate the total number of valid hosts per network.
A network ID is the first IP address in a network. This may also be referred to as a subnet ID.
Every host bit for the network ID address is turned off (or all 0s). An example of a Class A network ID is 16.0.0.0.
A broadcast IP is the last IP address in a network. Every host bit for the broadcast IP address is
turned on (or all 1s). An example of a Class A broadcast IP is 16.255.255.255.

EXAM ALERT
Power of 2 When you enter the exam room, it’s helpful to write some things down on the paper or
white board that is supplied. I would suggest writing down the powers of 2 for quick reference when
calculating networks and hosts.

Here’s a calculation for the number of networks for each class:
27 – 2 = 126 total Class A networks
214 – 2 = 16,382 total Class B networks
221 – 2 = 2,097,150 total Class C networks

NOTE
When calculating the total number of Class A, B, or C networks, the exponent is a multiple of 7.

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 132

132

Chapter 4: IP at the Network Layer

Now you can calculate the number of hosts per network:
For any Class A network,
Network = 1 byte (8 bits)
Host = 3 bytes (24 bits)
224 – 2 = 16,777,214 total hosts per network
For any Class B network,
Network = 2 bytes (16 bits)
Host = 2 bytes (16 bits)
216 – 2 = 65,534 total hosts per network
For any Class C network,
Network = 3 bytes (24 bits)
Host = 1 byte (8 bits)
28 – 2 = 254 total hosts per network

NOTE
When calculating the total number of hosts per network, the exponent is equal to the number of host bits.



Subnet Masks
Sub-networks (subnets) enable you to break a large network of IP addresses down into smaller, manageable address ranges. A smaller address range means fewer hosts on a network. Each
subnet becomes a separate broadcast domain. All the devices that are in the same broadcast

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 133

133

IP Addressing and Formats

domain receive all broadcasts. Think if it were possible to have all 16,777,214 Class A network
hosts sharing a broadcast domain and receiving all broadcasts. That would be a huge amount
of traffic. Subnets enable you to break this large network into smaller address ranges. In this
case, smaller is better.
A subnet mask is used to identify which part of an IP address is the network portion. Like the
IP address itself, a subnet mask consists of 32 bits. The network portion is represented by
all 1s.
The default subnet masks for Class A, Class B, and Class C networks are as follows:
. Class A—255.0.0.0 (11111111 00000000 000000000 000000000)
. Class B—255.255.0.0 (111111111 1111111111 000000000 000000000)
. Class C—255.255.255.0 (111111111 1111111111 111111111 0000000000)

Now that you know what an IP address and subnet mask are, there is a mathematical operation called Boolean AND that helps to identify some important aspects of an IP network. With
Boolean AND you can determine the network ID and broadcast IP given an IP address and
subnet mask.
Boolean AND works as follows:
. Determines the binary value of the IP address.
. Determines the binary value of the subnet mask.
. Lines up both binary values one on top of the other.
. If the lined-up bit values in both addresses equal 1, the Boolean bit is also 1.
. If the lined-up bit values in both addresses do not equal 1, the Boolean bit is 0.

Table 4.10 provides a Boolean example. The decimal IP address value = 124.0.0.0, and the subnet mask = 255.0.0.0.
TABLE 4.10

Boolean AND Example #1

IP Address Binary

01111100

00000000

00000000

00000000

Subnet Mask Binary

11111111

00000000

00000000

00000000

Boolean AND

01111100

00000000

00000000

00000000

The network ID in this example is 124.0.0.0. Using Boolean you can see that the host bits in
the last three octets are 0 bits, which identifies the network ID. I emphasized the last host octet
in Table 4.10. If you turn all of those host bits on, you will get the broadcast IP, which in this
case is 124.255.255.255.

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 134

134

Chapter 4: IP at the Network Layer

For the next example (Table 4.11), the decimal IP address value = 135.252.4.0, and the subnet
mask = 255.255.0.0.
TABLE 4.11

Boolean AND Example #2

IP Address Binary

10000111

11111100

00000100

00000000

Subnet Mask Binary

11111111

11111111

00000000

00000000

Boolean AND

10000111

11111100

00000000

00000000

The network ID in this example is 135.252.0.0. Using Boolean you can see that the host bits
in the last two octets are 0 bits, which identify the network ID. I emphasized both host octets
in the example. If you were to turn all those host bits on, you would get the broadcast IP,
which in this case is 135.252.255.255.
Classless Interdomain Routing (CIDR) notation may also be used to identify the subnet mask.
The mask is written in slash notation as follows:
. Class A—/8
. Class B—/16
. Class C—/24

EXAM ALERT
The CIDR notation or prefix notation for each network class can be determined by counting the 1s in
binary or the number of bits that make up the network portion of the address.


Private (RFC 1918) Addressing
The previously listed Class A, B, and C addresses are all IANA assigned public IP addresses.
Although it originally seemed that there was sufficient public IPv4 address space available,

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 135

135

Subnetting IP

resources began being consumed quickly. I mentioned that IPv6 was developed in the event
that IPv4 address space became exhausted. Other measures were also implemented to alleviate
the shortage of IPv4 public IP address space. These measures include RFC1918, Network
Address Translation (NAT), and Port Address Translation (PAT). RFC 1918 defines private IP
address space. Private address space can be used for traffic that does not need to leave the
internal network. Because this traffic is internal to the network, it does not matter if other
organizations are using the same address space. Private IP addresses are not routable on the
Internet.
IANA Private Address Space Allocations include the following IP address ranges for Class A,
Class B, and Class C networks:
. Class A—10.0.0.0–10.255.255.255
. Class B—172.16.0.0–172.31.255.255
. Class C—192.168.0.0–192.168.255.255

NAT translates one IP address to another. Typically this is done between private and public IP
addresses. For example, a private IP address can be translated with NAT to a public IP address
for outbound transmission to the Internet. NAT can also translate a public IP address to a private IP address for inbound transmission on the internal network. PAT can translate multiple
addresses on an internal network to a single public IP address, which is called one-to-many
address translation. PAT is available as NAT overloading on Cisco routers.

NOTE
Chapter 14, “Network Address Translation,” covers NAT terminology and configurations in detail.

Subnetting IP
So far, we have focused on the network classes and key characteristics of each one. As I mentioned, each network class can also be broken down into smaller groups of IP address ranges
or subnets. Subnetting is the process of breaking down those larger IP networks into smaller
sub-networks. At first, subnetting IP might seem like a daunting task, but it’s not that bad after
you get the hang of it. In this section you need to pull together all the knowledge that you
have learned so far about binary, decimal, and subnets.
First, let’s get the easy subnetting out of the way.
For an IP address that has a 255.255.0.0 or 255.255.255.0 subnet mask, you can copy the
octets that have a subnet mask value of 255 from the original IP address. For the remaining
octets, you will put down a 0. Here’s an example:

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 136

136

Chapter 4: IP at the Network Layer

IP address = 139.42.6.0
Subnet Mask = 255.255.0.0
The Network ID is 139.42.0.0.
To determine the Broadcast IP of this IP address and subnet mask, just replace the 0 octets
from the Network ID with 255.
The Broadcast IP is 139.42.255.255.

EXAM ALERT
When a subnet mask has a value of 255.255.0.0 or 255.255.255.0, you can copy the original IP octets
that match the 255 value subnet octets and then use 0 for any remaining octets to determine your
Network ID. The Broadcast IP is the same original IP octets that match the 255 value subnet octets and
the number 255 rather than 0 for the remaining octet(s).

To understand more difficult subnetting, you need to break down an IP address into network
bits, host bits, and subnet bits. The network bits are determined by the network class. Class A
has 8 network bits, Class B has 16 network bits, and Class C has 24 network bits. The network
bits value is a constant. The host bits, on the other hand, must share space with the subnet bits.
To determine the subnet bits for a network you need to look at the subnet mask in binary. For
example,
IP address = 176.85.195.60/22
Subnet Mask = 255.255.252.0
Subnet Mask in Binary = 11111111 11111111 11111100 00000000
Network bits = 16
Host bits = 10
Subnet bits = 6
The subnet mask in binary has 22 bits with a value of 1, which means the CIDR notation is
/22. Based on the first octet of the IP address you know that this is a Class B network. Class B
networks have 16 network bits. That leaves 16 bits in the address. The bits that have a value
of 0 determine the number of host bits. In this case there are 10 host bits. The rest of the bits
are the subnet bits, so there are 6 subnet bits.
Table 4.12 is a conversion table of decimal to binary values that will help you convert addresses more quickly when taking the exam.

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 137

137

Subnetting IP

TABLE 4.12

Decimal-to-Binary Conversion

Decimal

Binary

0

00000000

128

10000000

192

11000000

224

11100000

240

11110000

248

11111000

252

11111100

254

11111110

255

11111111

You can use the chart to figure out more IP address values:
IP address = 100.15.209.0/23
Subnet Mask = 255.255.254.0
Subnet Mask in Binary = 11111111 11111111 11111110 00000000
Network bits = 8
Host bits = 9
Subnet bits = 15
IP address = 128.216.55.0/24
Subnet Mask = 255.255.255.0
Subnet Mask in Binary = 11111111 11111111 11111111 00000000
Network bits = 16
Host bits = 8
Subnet bits = 8
IP address = 222.110.8.61/28
Subnet Mask = 255.255.255.240
Subnet Mask in Binary = 11111111 11111111 11111111 11110000
Network bits = 24
Host bits = 4
Subnet bits = 4

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 138

138

Chapter 4: IP at the Network Layer


Calculating Hosts in a Subnet
To calculate the hosts in a subnet, we can use the formula 2H – 2. The exponent H represents
the number of host bits in a network. If you use the subnetting examples, you can determine
the hosts in each subnet:
IP address = 176.85.195.60/22
Subnet Mask = 255.255.252.0
Network bits = 16
Host bits = 10
Subnet bits = 6
210 – 2 = 1022 Hosts
IP address = 100.15.209.0/23
Subnet Mask = 255.255.254.0
Network bits = 8
Host bits = 9

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 139

139

Subnetting IP

Subnet bits = 15
29 – 2 = 510 Hosts
IP address = 128.216.55.0/24
Subnet Mask = 255.255.255.0
Network bits = 16
Host bits = 8
Subnet bits = 8
28 – 2 = 254 Hosts
IP address = 222.110.8.61/28
Subnet Mask = 255.255.255.240
Network bits = 24
Host bits = 4
Subnet bits = 4
24 – 2 = 14 Hosts

EXAM ALERT
The formula to calculate the number of hosts created is 2H – 2. The H represents the host bits in a network.

Calculating Networks in a Subnet
To calculate the networks in a subnet, you can use the formula 2N – 2. The exponent N represents the number of subnet bits in a network. You can figure out the number of networks in
each subnet with the formula.
IP address = 176.85.195.60/22
Subnet Mask = 255.255.252.0
Network bits = 16
Host bits = 10
Subnet bits = 6
26 – 2 = 62 Networks
IP address = 100.15.209.0/23
Subnet Mask = 255.255.254.0
Network bits = 8
Host bits = 9
Subnet bits = 15
215 – 2 = 32,766 Networks
IP address = 128.216.55.0/24
Subnet Mask = 255.255.255.0
Network bits = 16
Host bits = 8
Subnet bits = 8
28 – 2 = 254 Networks
IP address = 222.110.8.61/28
Subnet Mask = 255.255.255.240
Network bits = 24
Host bits = 4
Subnet bits = 4
24 – 2 = 14 Networks

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 141

141

Subnetting IP

EXAM ALERT
The formula to calculate the number of networks or subnets created is 2N – 2. The N represents the
subnet bits in a network.



Zero Subnet Rule
Zero subnet may also be referred to as subnet zero. The zero subnet is the first subnet in a network and has all binary 0s in the subnet field. For the purpose of taking the CCNA exam, you
should not include the first subnet when calculating the number of networks in a larger subnet. This is one of the two reserved subnet numbers on a network and one of the reasons why
you subtract from the total number of networks to get the correct answer for the test. The
other network is the broadcast subnet, which has all 1s in the subnet field.

The Increment
We have been working with the IP address subnet 222.110.8.61/28. After you know how many
subnets and hosts are in a subnet, you can determine the network ID for that subnet. So far,

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 142

142

Chapter 4: IP at the Network Layer

you know that 222.110.8.61/28 has 14 hosts and 14 subnets. Before subtracting 2 for the valid
number of hosts/networks, your calculations were for 16 hosts and 16 networks. This means
that a subnet with a 255.255.255.240 mask is part of a larger subnet with a 16-host increment.
The variable part of this subnet is the last octet. So you can automatically write down the first
three octets as follows:
222.110.8.x (where the x is variable and has a 16-host increment)
Octet values range from 0–255. So the first subnet in the larger network is 222.110.8.0. Now
you want to add increments of 16 to the last octet, so you get the following networks:
222.110.8.0 (zero subnet—not valid for the CCNA exam)
222.110.8.16
222.110.8.32
222.110.8.48
222.110.8.64
222.110.8.80
222.110.8.96
222.110.8.112
222.110.8.128
222.110.8.144
222.110.8.160
222.110.8.176
222.110.8.192
222.110.8.208
222.110.8.224
222.110.8.240 (broadcast subnet—not valid for the CCNA exam)
This is a list of the Network IDs in that Class C network with a subnet of 255.255.255.240.
The Network ID is always an even number. There are 16 total subnets. According to the zero
subnet and broadcast subnet rule, the first and last subnet cannot be used. The IP address
222.110.8.61 is greater than 48 and less than 64, so the Network ID or subnet number for
222.110.8.61/28 is 222.110.8.48 (which is highlighted in the list of networks). To get the
broadcast IP, subtract 1 from the next Network ID in your list. In this example, the broadcast
IP is 222.110.8.63.
There is another math shortcut that can be used to identify the Network ID, which then helps
you determine the Broadcast IP. Take another look at 222.110.8.61/28.

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 143

143

Subnetting IP

IP address = 222.110.8.61
Subnet Mask = 255.255.255.240
Look at the first subnet mask octet from the left that is not a value of 255 and subtract it from
256.
256 – 240 = 16
You want to find the closest multiple of 16 that is less than the last octet in the IP address,
which equals 61. You are using the last octet because that is the same octet used from the subnet mask.
16×3 = 48 and 16×4 = 64
Based on the calculations, the Network ID increments are as follows:
222.110.8.48
222.110.8.64
So you use 48 because it is less than 61, and 64 is the Network ID of the next subnet. You come
up with the same answer as before.
Network ID = 222.110.8.48
Broadcast IP = 222.110.8.63 (one less than the next Network ID of the next subnet)
Here’s another example:
IP address = 100.15.209.0
Subnet Mask = 255.255.254.0
The first two octets in the subnet mask equal 255, so you need to use the first octet that is not
equal to 255, or in this case the third octet from the left. Now you can subtract 254 from 256.
256 – 254 = 2
2×104 = 208
2×105 = 210
You can see that the valid network ID less than 209 is 208. The next network ID equals 210,
so you can fill out the third octet with each value to obtain the following network ID increments:
100.15.208.0
100.15.210.0

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 144

144

Chapter 4: IP at the Network Layer

For IP address 100.15.209.0 with a subnet mask of 255.255.254.0, you now know the Network
ID is 100.15.208.0. The next network is 100.15.210.0, so you want to find the last IP address
before that network ID to get the Broadcast IP. Because the value of an octet can range from
0–255, the last possible IP before 100.15.210.0 is 100.15.209.255.
Network ID = 100.15.208.0
Broadcast IP = 100.15.209.255

Determining the Range of Valid IPs
The range of valid IP addresses in a subnet is the first IP address after the Network ID and the
last IP address before the Broadcast IP address. If you are given the following IP address and
subnet mask, you can determine the range of valid IP addresses:

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 145

145

Subnetting IP

IP Address = 210.189.16.0
Subnet Mask = 255.255.255.0
First, identify the Network ID, which in this case is 210.189.16.0. Then determine the
Broadcast address, which is 210.189.16.255. In this case the valid IP range is
210.189.16.1–210.189.16.254.
Here are some more examples where the Network ID and Broadcast IP have already been
determined:
IP address = 100.15.209.0
Subnet Mask = 255.255.254.0
CIDR = /23
Network ID = 100.15.208.0
Broadcast IP = 100.15.209.255
Valid IP range = 100.15.208.1–100.15.209.254
IP address = 222.110.8.61
Subnet Mask = 255.255.255.240
CIDR = /28
Network ID = 222.110.8.48
Broadcast IP = 222.110.8.63
Valid IP range = 222.110.8.49–222.110.8.62

EXAM ALERT
The valid range of IP addresses always starts with an odd number and ends with an even number.


Network Layer Devices
The most common network device found at the Network layer is a router; however, Layer 3
switches may also be implemented to create a WAN.
Both routers and Layer 3 switches can carry out these functions:
. Suppress broadcasts or multicasts
. Determine the best path for data transfer (routing)
. Strip down and add to Data Link layer frames
. Implement access lists for packet filtering (permit/deny statements)
. Set up quality of service (QoS) qualifiers to measure network performance

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 147

147

IPv6

It is important to know that both these devices can be used at the Network layer. However, for
the purpose of the CCNA exam, routers are more widely recognized and, therefore, are
referred to when discussing Layer 3 functions.

Routers
Routers join a minimum of two networks together to create a WAN. So far, we have discussed
devices that are used at the Physical layer (hubs and repeaters) and the Data Link layer (Layer
2 switches and bridges). Layer 2 switches and bridges create a separate collision domain for
each segment of the LAN. Routers and Layer 3 switches create a separate broadcast domain
for each segment of a WAN. A broadcast domain is a group of nodes that can receive one
another’s broadcast messages. Figure 4.4 demonstrates how a router creates broadcast domains
whereas the connected switches create collision domains.
Collision Domain

Broadcast Domain

Broadcast Domain

Collision Domain

FIGURE 4.4

Broadcast and collision domains.

Figure 4.5 demonstrates a simple LAN with one router and two segments. In this network,
any traffic that is generated by Matt’s PC has the source MAC and source IP address of that
PC. If Matt is sending a frame to the server on the other segment of that WAN, the destination IP address will be that of the server he is trying to reach. Because the server is not on the
same segment as Matt, the destination MAC address is that of the router, which is the default
gateway. The router takes a look at the frame and at its own routing table. It then decides what

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 148

148

Chapter 4: IP at the Network Layer

interface to use to forward the frame based on the network portion of the IP address. The
router attaches its own MAC address as the source MAC address of the frame before sending
the frame to the server.
A routing table on a router contains the following information:
. Network Address
. Interface—Exit interface used to forward packets
. Metric—Distance to reach a remote network

Figure 4.6 exemplifies a WAN with two routers. Each router has a separate routing table to
make best path decisions.

Matt

FIGURE 4.5

Frame transmission using a router.

There are two packet types used at Layer 3:
. Data Packets—Transport data across the internetwork and are supported by routed

protocols such as IP and IPX.
. Route Update Packets—Send updates to neighbor routers about all networks con-

nected to that internetwork and are supported by routing protocols such as RIP,
EIGRP, and OSPF.

07_0789735199_ch04.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 149

149

Network Layer Devices

1.1

1.2

3.1

1.0

3.2

3.0

E0 1.3

E0 3.3
2.1
S0

2.2
S0

Routing Table
NET
1
2
3

INT
E0
S0
S0

Routing Table
Metric
0
0
1

NET
1
2
3

INT
S0
S0
E0

Metric
1
0
0

FIGURE 4.6

A WAN with routing

tables.

NOTE
Specific Cisco router models are reviewed in Chapter 5, “Introduction to Cisco Routers and Switches.”
IP configurations are covered in Chapter 7, “Basic Cisco Configurations.”
Chapter 10, “Introduction to Routing and Routing Protocols,” details routing terminology.
Chapter 11, “Distance Vector Routing Protocols,” reviews RIP and IGRP routing protocols.
Chapter 12, “Link-State and Hybrid Routing Protocols,” discusses OSPF, RIPv2, and EIGRP routing protocols.

Layer 3 Switches
Layer 3 switches are typically called multi-layer switches. I already listed the commonalities
between routers and Layer 3 switches. There are also a couple of differences worth mentioning. The number one difference between a router and a Layer 3 switch is packet switching
throughput. Whereas a router has evolved over the years to process more than one million
packets per second (pps), a Layer 3 switch can process millions of pps. That said, Layer 3
switches process more traffic in a shorter time.
Whereas routers use microprocessor-based engines, Layer 3 switches use ASIC hardware to
perform packet switching. Layer 2 switches use ASIC hardware to forward frames.

NOTE
The Cisco Catalyst 8500 series switch is an example of a Layer 3 switch. Layer 3 switches are recommended for Campus networks.

08_0789735199_ch05.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 169

169

Interfaces and Modules

interface modules on the right. The 10/100 ports allow for either a 10Mbps or 100Mbps
connection speed. Media connects to an ethernet switch port via an RJ-45 connector. As far as
the switch is concerned, each ethernet port is designated as a numbered interface for identification. The top left port is labeled 1 by the switch. Each interface begins with a 0/#, where the
# sign equals the port number on the switch. The top left port is then named 0/1 on that
switch. Given this formula, the bottom left port is labeled 0/2.

EXAM ALERT
For the CCNA exam, know how the interfaces are labeled for an ethernet port. This information is necessary for any switch configuration exercises.

The Gigabit Ethernet slots are available for Gigabit Interface Converters (GBICs). A GBIC
interface module can be inserted into the Gigabit Ethernet slot to allow for different media
connections to that port. The physical media can range from copper to single-mode fiber. A
GBIC is also hot swappable, so you can remove and replace it without shutting off power to
the switch. This helps to avoid interruption of service to that switch.
The back panel of the 2950 includes power input and the switch’s console port. The console
port has an RJ-45 connector and is connected to a terminal with a rollover cable for initial
switch configuration.

WAN Interfaces
Wide area network (WAN) interfaces are also used to provide a point of interconnection
between Cisco routers and other network devices. Types of WAN interfaces include
. Basic Rate Interface (BRI)
. Synchronous Serial
. Asynchronous Serial
. High-Speed Serial Interface (HSSI)
. T1 Controller Card

BRI
BRI is an Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) service that consists of two 64Kbps
bearer (B) channels and one 16Kbps data (D) channel. Voice, video, and data traffic can be carried over the B-channels. Signals between telephone company switches use the D-channel.
Cisco offers an 8-port ISDN-BRI with a built-in Network Termination Type 1 (NT-1)
Network Module for router installation.

08_0789735199_ch05.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 170

170

Chapter 5: Introduction to Cisco Routers and Switches

EXAM ALERT
For the exam you should know that BRI is an ISDN line that consists of two 64Kbps bearer (B) channels
and one 16Kbps data (D) channel.

The NT-1 is a telephone company requirement for an ISDN line connection. This network
module has a BRI U interface, which means that the NT-1 is built in on the network module
and does not require a separate NT-1 device.

Synchronous Serial
A synchronous serial interface synchronizes clocks for the bit stream of both the sending and
receiving end of a serial link. This allows for the data rate to be adjusted if necessary to ensure
that both ends of a serial link are functioning at the same speed.

Asynchronous Serial
An asynchronous serial interface does the opposite of a synchronous serial interface. It does
not synchronize the clocks for the bit stream of the sending and receiving end of a serial link.
Cisco offers a 4-port asynchronous/synchronous serial network module.
With the asynchronous/synchronous serial network module, each port can be configured individually as either asynchronous or synchronous, depending on your network setup.

HSSI
High-speed serial interfaces offer up to 52Mbps transmission rates to the WAN from a Cisco
router. The higher speed capacity is relevant if the corporate backbone requires high-speed
Internet access and VPN connectivity. Cisco offers a 2-port HSSI port adapter.

T1 Controller Card
Also referred to as a digital signal level 1 (DS1) service, a T1 is a connecting line that offers a
1.544Mbps data transmission speed. A single T1 line consists of 24 digital signal level 0 (DS0)
channels that are 64Kbps each and an additional 8Kbps that is reserved for management overhead. A T1 controller card can be installed in a router’s T1 slot to communicate with and control the 24 DS0 channels.

Data Communications Equipment (DCE)
Data Communications Equipment (DCE) or Data Circuit-Terminating Equipment (DCE) is
the term used to identify a device that connects the Data Terminal Equipment (DTE) to a
service provider’s communications line. The DCE side of a connection sets the clock speed for
a serial connection.

08_0789735199_ch05.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 171

171

Interfaces and Modules

DCE equipment may consist of a
. Modem
. Channel Service Unit/Data Service Unit (CSU/DSU)
. Basic Rate Interface Network Termination Type 1 (BRI NT-1)

Modems convert a digital signal into an analog signal for transmission over a telephone line.
The signal is converted back into a digital format when it reaches the device on the other end
of that telephone line.
A Channel Service Unit/Data Service Unit (CSU/DSU) serves as the intermediary between
the service provider and the WAN router. In most cases, the CSU/DSU provides the clock
speed for the router. A CSU/DSU may be a separate unit or it could be incorporated into a
WAN interface card (WIC).
If it is not built in on a Cisco router via a BRI-U (Basic Rate Interface-User) interface, the
service provider requires separate BRI NT-1 hardware as a termination point for the communications line. The BRI NT-1 then connects to the Cisco router.

Data Terminal Equipment (DTE)
Data Terminal Equipment is the term used to identify a device at the user end of a network
and is connected to the service provider via the DCE device.
DTE equipment may consist of a
. Router
. PC
. Server

In Figure 5.1, the service provider, whom you will most likely hear called a telco, brings a communication line from its central office (CO) to the customer and terminates its line to the
CSU/DSU. The CSU/DSU is then connected to the customer router. The point at which the
telco terminates its line to the customer is called a demarcation point or demarc. Customerowned equipment, such as the router and typically the CSU/DSU, is referred to as customer
premise equipment (CPE).
DCE

DTE

CSU/DSU

End User
Router

Service
Provider

An overview of a service
provider connection to an end user.

FIGURE 5.1

08_0789735199_ch05.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 172

172

Chapter 5: Introduction to Cisco Routers and Switches

Cabling between the CSU/DSU and router is decided by the type of CSU/DSU that is
deployed on that network. If a WIC functions as a CSU/DSU, then the CPE is a telco jack
and a Category 5 or Category 6 cable is used with an RJ-45 connector. If a WIC does not
function as the CSU/DSU, there are several types of connections possible between a
CSU/DSU and the DTE device. With routers, typically a DB-60 connector is used to connect to the router while one of the following connectors is used to connect to the CSU/DSU:
. EIA/TIA-232

. V.35

. EIA/TIA-449

. X.21

. EIA/TIA-530

The Electronic Industries Association/Telecommunications Industry Association (EIA/TIA)
formed a standards body, which developed the 232, 449, and 530 cables. The V.35 and X.21
cables were developed by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU).
Your best bet is to position the CSU/DSU as close to the router as possible. This requires the
shortest amount of cable and therefore ensures maximum speeds.

EXAM ALERT
For the exam you should know the difference between DCE and DTE equipment. Also, know that the
DCE side of a connection must provide the clocking for the serial connection.

Cisco Memory Components
Four memory components are used by Cisco devices. Those components include ROM,
Flash, RAM, and NVRAM.

ROM
Read-only memory (ROM) contains the basic code for booting a device and maintaining
Power on Self Test (POST), ROM Monitor (ROMmon), bootstrap, and RXBOOT. Because
this type of memory is read-only, it cannot be changed by any configuration done at the networking device. ROM is nonvolatile, so data is not lost when the device is powered off.

Flash
Flash is installed on either an electrically erasable, programmable, read-only memory (EEPROM) or Personal Computer Memory Card International Association (PCMCIA) card. Flash
memory contains the Cisco Internetworking Operating System (IOS) image. The router uses

08_0789735199_ch05.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 173

173

Cisco Internetworking Operating System

Flash by default to locate the IOS when it is booted. Configuration files may also be stored on
a Flash card. Like ROM, Flash is also nonvolatile memory.

RAM
Random-access memory (RAM) is used for short-term storage of a machine’s running IOS and
running configuration. The IOS is copied from Flash to RAM. This is the only type of system
memory that is not permanent. At times, you may hear RAM also referred to as dynamic
random-access memory (DRAM). Because this type of memory is volatile, it is lost whenever
the machine is shut down.

EXAM ALERT
RAM contains the running IOS, with the exception of Run-From-Flash (RFF) routers. RAM also contains
the running configuration or the active configuration that is used after a machine is booted.

NVRAM
Nonvolatile random-access memory (NVRAM) stores the startup configuration. This is the
configuration that is loaded when the machine is booted.

Cisco Internetworking Operating System
Cisco IOS software is developed and maintained by Cisco to support a full array of system
functions, applications (including Internet applications), and network hardware in a single
software package. IOS software is installed on each Cisco router or switch and can accommodate network growth and provide for secure data transfers. The command-line interface (CLI)
for routers and switches defines the commands that are used to communicate with the IOS.
Future chapters demonstrate the use of CLI commands on both network devices.

NOTE
A Cisco Catalyst switch may use either a Cat OS or Cisco IOS. The major difference with Cat OS is the CLI
commands that are used in conjunction with the operating system software.

Cisco releases IOS software using what they call trains. Each release can be further defined by
train identifiers. A train identifier determines whether a release is a Technology (T),
Enterprise (E), or Service Provider (SP) release. When the IOS version has no train identifier, it is the mainline train. With so many features and applications being offered with each

08_0789735199_ch05.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 174

174

Chapter 5: Introduction to Cisco Routers and Switches

release, a train identifier can further define a specific subset of features. For example, if you
have a release named 12.3(1)T, the IOS version number breaks down as follows:
. 12.3 refers to the mainline train that will not be added to but will be subject to IOS

bug fixes.
. (1) represents the release number, which increments with each new release of the

mainline train.
. T identifies the type of train release where T stands for Technology. This may also be

an S (Service Provider) or E (Enterprise) train.

Feature Sets
A feature set is a package of the features that is offered in addition to the basic IOS functions
of an IOS software release. You can select more than one feature set per release. Feature sets
may be identified as standard, enhanced, or advanced, depending on the services that are supported. To give you an idea of the latest features available with Cisco IOS, current releases
offer the following software functionality:
. IP Base—The base IOS image.
. IP Voice—Features include Voice over IP (VoIP), and Voice over Frame (VoFR).
. Advanced Security—Offers advanced protection via firewall, Intrusion Detection

System (IDS), Secure Shell (SSH), and IP Security (IPSec).
. SP Services—Includes service provider services such as IPv6, Netflow SSH, ATM,

Voice over ATM (VoATM), and Frame Relay.
. Enterprise Base—Consists of Enterprise Layer 3 routed protocols, and IBM support.
. Advanced IP Services—Offers a combination of the Advanced Security and Service

Provider Services feature sets.
. Enterprise Services—Combines the Enterprise Base and Service Provider Services fea-

ture sets with full IBM support.
. Advanced Enterprise Services—Incorporates all the Cisco IOS feature sets.

IOS Image File Naming
The IOS image file represents the name of the system image on a Cisco router or switch. The
hardware platform, feature set, compression format, IOS version, and train information are all

08_0789735199_ch05.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 175

175

Cisco Internetworking Operating System

found in the name of an IOS image file. An IOS image filename can be broken out to identify more specific information about the IOS in use by a device. This is helpful if you are troubleshooting a system issue and need to verify what version is currently in use. Cisco may be
aware of an IOS bug, or the version may simply be outdated and an IOS upgrade might be the
solution to your trouble. To find the IOS image filename, use the show version command
from the command prompt.
Given the example filename c2600-ipbase-1.122-1.T.bin (.bin indicates binary format),
from left to right, each portion of the filename represents the following:
. c2600—Hardware platform (Cisco 2600 router)
. ipbase—Feature set
. 1—File format (compressed re-locatable)
. 122—IOS version number
. 1—Maintenance release number
. T—Train identifier

EXAM ALERT
Remember the IOS image file structure. If given a filename, you should be able to break down each
part of the file and what it represents.



08_0789735199_ch05.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 176

176

Chapter 5: Introduction to Cisco Routers and Switches

Cisco Router Models and Features
Cisco offers a wide selection of router models for network implementations. The Cisco family of routers can accommodate networks that range in size and require various network interfaces for WAN connectivity. As mentioned, some router models are fixed port and fixed
configuration, whereas others are modular-port routers. To help you prepare for the CCNA
exam, a Cisco 2500 series router model can perform a broad range of the basic routing functions. This router can provide you with sufficient functionality to practice initial router setup
and configurations.
The 2500 series hardware can support CSU/DSU, ethernet, token ring, asynchronous or
synchronous serial, and ISDN connections. The 2500 series routers coupled with Cisco IOS
software can support routed protocols such as IP, Novell IPX, and AppleTalk. They can also
support a wide array of routing protocols. Although most of the 2500 family routers are fixed
port, the 2524 and 2525 models are both modular-port routers.
In addition to the 2500 series routers, Cisco also offers the following router series:
. 800 Series—Fixed-port and fixed-configuration routers that support Asymmetric

Digital Subscriber Line (ADSL), ADSL over ISDN, Single-pair High-Speed DSL
(G.SHDSL), Serial, and ethernet to an external cable modem or DSL connections.
They can also support a small office or a home office for a telecommuter.
. 1600 Series—Fixed-port routers that support ISDN, asynchronous serial, or synchro-

nous serial connections and can support a small- to moderately-sized business.
. 1700 Series—Modular-port routers that support built-in Fast Ethernet LAN ports

and WAN/Voice modular slots, and can support a small- to moderately-sized business.
. 1800 Series—Fixed-port and modular-port routers that build on the 1700 Series

router functionality with integrated services such as IPSec VPN, firewall security,
inline intrusion prevention (IPS), Network Admission Control (NAC), and URL filtering to small offices.
. 2600 Series—Modular multiservice access routers that support built-in ethernet LAN

ports, built-in Fast Ethernet LAN ports, and WAN/voice modular slots. They can support a small to medium office.
. 2800 Series—Integrated service routers that support built-in Fast Ethernet LAN

ports, built-in Gigabit Ethernet LAN ports, and WAN/voice modular slots. They can
support a small to medium office, its telecommuters, and Wi-Fi connections.
. 3600 Series—Modular multiservice access routers that support data, voice, video, and

VPN. They can support a medium to large office or a small Internet Service Provider
(ISP).
. 3700 Series—Modular multiservice access routers that support built-in Fast Ethernet

LAN ports and WAN/voice modular slots. They can support branch offices.

08_0789735199_ch05.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 177

177

Cisco Switch Models and Features
. 3800 Series—Modular multiservice access routers that support built-in dual Gigabit

Ethernet LAN ports and enhanced network module slots. They can support a medium
to large business with integrated services.
. 7200 Series—Can be used with an Enterprise Edge or Service Provider Edge environ-

ment and support links that range in size from a DS0 (64Kbps) all the way up to an
OC12 (655Mbps). They can support Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, and Packet over
Sonet connections. Chassis slots are open for installation of more than 70 network
interfaces.
. 7600 Series—Are likely to be found in a main office of an enterprise business or at a

small service provider’s point-of-presence (POP) site. Each chassis can support a maximum of 4 slots. Each slot has either a 40Gbps or 720Gbps capacity with advanced
optical service modules.

Cisco Switch Models and Features
The Cisco family of switches includes the Catalyst switch models, which as you learned earlier
in this chapter might use the Cat OS rather than the IOS. As with Cisco routers, the switch
model numbers increase as they are upgraded for enhanced overall operability. Various switches have been developed over the years to accommodate the size and functionality requirements
of LANs around the world. You may have a Cisco 1900, 2800, 2900, or 2924 switch to help you
study for the Cisco Certified Network Associate. These models should be easy to find and
affordable, and they cover all the features necessary for the exam when coupled with Cisco IOS.
In addition to the 1900, 2800, 2900, and 2924 series switches, Cisco also offers the following
switch series:
. 2950 Series—Includes a fixed-configuration switch that can support both Fast

Ethernet and Gigabit Ethernet connections.
. 3500 Series—Are stackable switches that can employ Cisco Switch Clustering tech-

nology and GigaStack GBICs, and support Layer 3 functionality.
. 4000 Series—Can support high-density copper, fiber-based interfaces, Fast Ethernet,

Gigabit Ethernet connections, and Layer 3 functionality.
. 6500 Series—Can support Power over Ethernet (PoE) devices, 10/100Mbps ethernet

ports, 10/100/1000Mbps ethernet ports, 10Gbps ethernet ports, and Layer 3 functionality.
Cisco switches may also support PoE. PoE enables an end device to receive power over a copper ethernet cable. End devices that might use PoE include IP telephones, video cameras, and
card scanners. This technology was originally developed by Cisco and called “inline power.”
IEEE has since standardized PoE with 802.3af.

09_0789735199_CH06.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 188

188

Chapter 6: Initial Cisco IOS Operations

Introduction
Unfortunately, Cisco devices are not yet at the point where they can automatically configure
themselves. With that being said, each Cisco device that contains an IOS (internetwork operating system) must have some interface in which you, the expert Cisco administrator, can
interact with the operating system to perform any administration, configuration, and troubleshooting services.
This chapter explores the options available for interacting with the Cisco IOS. In addition, it
looks into the multiple boot-up steps that occur when a Cisco router or switch is powered on,
and how you can manipulate that startup sequence. Finally, it explores the command hierarchy of the IOS and shows you how to accurately navigate your way around to achieve your
administrative goal.

Terminal Options
Objective:

Establish communication between a terminal device and the router IOS, and use IOS
for system analysis
You can choose from among several options to gain access to the Cisco IOS. These access
methodologies are commonly referred to as EXEC sessions. Assuming that the device model
and IOS supports them, certain Cisco devices can support up to five means of gaining an
EXEC session to the IOS, which are discussed in the following subsections.

Console Port
The majority of Cisco devices do not have a default IP address that can be utilized to gain
access to the IOS. Therefore, most Cisco devices gain initial out-of-band terminal access via
the console port. After an EXEC access is gained, you can configure the device via the CLI
(command-line interface) of the IOS.

NOTE
The term out-of-band simply refers to the fact that the console is a management port that is separate from
interfaces that are used for networking data transmissions. Adversely, in-band management signals traverse over the same networking paths and interfaces as the data stream. This implies that you have IP
connectivity to the devices that you are managing.

09_0789735199_CH06.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 189

189

Terminal Options

To connect to a console port, Cisco supplies you with a flat rollover cable. As illustrated in
Figure 6.1, the pins in a rollover cable are reverse images of each other when the cable is
viewed with both sides of the tabs down. Cisco console cables either come with a two RJ-45
connectors in which a DB-9 adapter is required for connection to the PC, or come with the
DB-9 connector attached to one end of the cable. The 9-pin connector of the console cable
connects to your terminal PC’s COM port. Keep in mind that this management connection is
for initial terminal access only and should not be confused with an actual networking Ethernet
cable of any sort.
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

FIGURE 6.1

Cisco console cable pinouts.

EXAM ALERT
It is important to be able to recognize and differentiate between the pin configurations of a straightthrough ethernet cable versus a cross-over ethernet cable versus a rollover console cable.

An ASCII terminal emulation software program must be running on your management PC if
it is to interact with the Cisco IOS. There are several different terminal programs available,
such as HyperTerminal, TeraTerm, SecureCRT, and others. The terminal setup of the COM
port connected to the rollover console cable must be set to the following default console
parameters: 9600 baud, 8 data bits, no parity bits, 1 stop bit, and no flow control. After the
terminal is set up correctly and you have powered on the Cisco device, you should see the output from your console EXEC session in the terminal window.

09_0789735199_CH06.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 190

190

Chapter 6: Initial Cisco IOS Operations

Auxiliary Port
Certain Cisco models may contain another out-of-band management port called an auxiliary
(AUX) port. This port is very similar to the console port in that it uses a rollover cable and has
an RJ-45 connection to the Cisco device. The difference between the auxiliary and the console port is that the auxiliary port has flow control capability, which is useful for analog modem
connectivity. By connecting an external modem to this management port, you can dial into the
modem remotely and gain an EXEC session without being physically next to the Cisco device.

Telnet
As discussed in Chapter 1, “Standard Internetworking Models,” Telnet is an Application layer
protocol of the TCP/IP protocol suite that uses TCP port 23 to gain virtual terminal emulation to a device. Telnet is considered in-band management because it is required to have IP
connectivity to the Cisco device into which you are trying to Telnet. Most Cisco devices allow
at least 5 Telnet EXEC sessions to be connected for remote terminal access. For the sake of
security, there is some configuration involved to allow Telnet access into the Cisco devices.
Telnet is discussed in further detail in Chapter 7, “Basic Cisco Configurations.”

EXAM ALERT
Initiating a Telnet session to a Cisco device is an excellent way to test that you have Application layer
connectivity to that device.

HTTP
Similar to Telnet, HTTP is also an Application layer protocol of the TCP/IP protocol suite.
It uses TCP port 80 to establish a management connection to the Cisco device. In addition,
this EXEC option also requires IP connectivity to the Cisco device, making it an in-band
management communication methodology. The key difference between HTTP and Telnet is
that when you HTTP, you can have a graphical interface to the configuration and administration features of the Cisco IOS.

NOTE
Although the navigation of this management connection contains a graphical user interface (GUI), you will
still be required to know the CLI syntax for most of the IOS functions.

The HTTP EXEC session is made possible by a HTTP server service that can run if configured on the Cisco device. For security purposes, Cisco routers do not have this functionality

09_0789735199_CH06.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 191

191

Terminal Options

enabled by default. Cisco Catalyst switches, however, typically have this functionality enabled
for ease of administration. If this functionality is not going to be utilized, it is recommended
that you disable this service to avoid any security vulnerabilities.

SSH
Imagine you have Telntetted into a Cisco device and you decide to change the password. If an
attacker has the capability to eavesdrop on that Telnet terminal session, he could very well
detect the password change because the Telnet communications are in clear text.
With SSH (Secure Shell), you are provided a secure terminal EXEC connection through the
use of encrypted communications between your terminal client and the Cisco device. Your
terminal application must support SSH to connect securely to your Cisco device. Some terminal programs that support SSH are SecureCRT and Putty. In addition, the version and feature set of the Cisco IOS must support SSH. Similar to its brother in-band protocols, Telnet
and HTTP, SSH also requires initial configurations before gaining access to an EXEC session.

REVIEW BREAK
Table 6.1 quickly reviews the five means of gaining EXEC sessions to Cisco Devices.
TABLE 6.1

Cisco EXEC Session Summary
In-band Versus Out-of-band

Cabling

Configuration
Required

Notes

Console

Out-of-band

Rollover

No

Requires physical connectivity.

Auxiliary

Out-of-band

Rollover

No

Requires external modem for
remote connectivity.

Telnet

In-band

None

Yes

Can support at least five connections to most Cisco devices.

HTTP

In-band

None

Yes

Must be enabled on Cisco routers.
Should be disabled if not utilized.

SSH

In-band

None

Yes

Requires SSH-compliant terminal
emulation program and specific
Cisco IOS version and feature set.

09_0789735199_CH06.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 192

192

Chapter 6: Initial Cisco IOS Operations

Router/Switch Startup Procedures
Objective:

Identify and describe the stages of the router boot-up sequence
Now that you have an understanding of how to connect to the Cisco IOS, you can now look
at the startup procedures for a Cisco router or switch to determine how the IOS is loaded and
running in the first place when you power on those devices. Additionally, these devices would
be doing us a huge administrative injustice if they did not load the configurations that you have
toiled over in previous EXEC sessions (despite the obvious level of job security). Thus, you
also need to look into how a saved configuration is applied after the IOS is loaded. As you will
see, each of the memory components that was discussed in Chapter 5, “Introduction to Cisco
Routers and Switches,” performs a pivotal part in the storing, loading, and running of the IOS
and the configuration.
Router and switch startup procedures are extremely similar to a computer’s boot-up process.
For instance, when you turn on a computer, the computer utilizes ROM (read-only memory)
chips to perform a POST (power-on self-test) to check the critical hardware initially for startup. Then it consults the BIOS (basic input/output system) settings to determine the order in
which to search the hard drives, floppy drives, or CD drives to locate the operating system.
After the operating system is loaded, it applies any custom configurations you have made in
the past and utilizes those settings toward its normal operation.
Similarly, when you turn on a Cisco router and a switch, ROM chips perform a POST and
then load the IOS process. You can manipulate the location sources of the IOS similar to specifying the boot drive in the BIOS settings on a computer. After the IOS is loaded, your saved
configuration is loaded and applied to the device’s operating functions. The next sections delve
further into the specific processes that are occurring at each stage.

POST
Objective:

Identify the major internal and external components of a router, and describe the
associated functionality
When you first apply power to a Cisco router or switch, a specialized ROM performs a series
of tests of the critical hardware components that are pertinent for startup and basic operation
such as Flash memory, CPU, and interfaces. It makes sense to utilize ROM chips for this service because they are already hard-coded with their programs and they do not require constant
power to keep those programs stored in the memory. If a failure occurs during this stage of the
startup process, you may encounter one of several outcomes, ranging from a non-functioning

09_0789735199_CH06.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 193

193

Router/Switch Startup Procedures

interface all the way to complete device failure. In any case, your equipment should be under
warranty or you have an active support contract in place to fix the failing hardware.

Bootstrap
After the hardware passes all its tests (if only the CCNA was that easy), another ROM seeks
out the operating system in accordance to its programming routines. The code that is run in
the ROM is commonly referred to as the bootstrap code. If a failure occurs at this stage of the
boot-up process, your Cisco device could very likely enter what is known as ROM Monitor or
commonly called ROMmon.

ROMmon
In your travels, if you or someone else has ever coined the phrase “hit rock bottom” you have
a general idea of what purpose ROMmon serves. The ROM Monitor is a very limited codeset
that enables you to perform elementary functions to manually get the router or switch back to
a functioning state. You can perform low-level diagnostics and even copy a new IOS file to the
Cisco device over the console port.

TIP
Keep in mind that your default console speed is 9600bps, and a typical IOS file exceeds 16 megabits. If
you need to re-copy a working IOS to the Cisco device in ROMmon mode over the console, I recommend
changing the default console speed in ROMmon to a higher speed or taking a long lunch or dinner break.

ROMmon is also utilized during password recovery on a Cisco router to make it possible to
tell the device manually to ignore any saved configurations (including the passwords). It is
possible to force your Cisco device to go directly to ROMmon on boot by sending a break
sequence in your terminal session in the first 60 seconds of bootup. You can tell you are in
ROMmon mode if you are presented with a command prompt that looks like rommon 1 >.
Any time you type a command in ROMmon, the number at the prompt increments by one
(rommon 2 >, rommon 3 >, and so on).

IOS Loading
Objective:

Describe how the configuration register and boot system commands modify the
router boot-up sequence
Up to this point, the Cisco router or switch has performed only initial diagnostics. With that
being said, the IOS itself still has not been located or loaded. The bootstrap’s programming

09_0789735199_CH06.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 194

194

Chapter 6: Initial Cisco IOS Operations

has a specific search order in which it typically follows to locate and load the IOS. I say ”typically” because you can alter the natural order of things with the router or switch’s startup
process if you manipulate something called the configuration register.
Located in NVRAM, the configuration register is a 16-bit (4 hexadecimal characters) value
that specifies how the router or switch should operate during initialization. For instance,
0x2102 (0x signifies all characters that follow are hexadecimal) is a common configuration register that specifies that the router or switch should boot in its typical fashion. However, if you
manipulate certain characters in the configuration register, you can manually modify the startup process to load the IOS from locations other than the default. Specifically, the last
hexadecimal character in the configuration register, known as the boot field, is the value that
dictates where the bootstrap code can find the IOS. The possible boot field values are as
follows:
. 0x2100—When the boot field is a zero, the configuration register instructs the boot-

strap to boot directly into ROM and load ROMmon.
. 0x2101—If the boot field has a value of one, the router or switch boots into a mini

IOS located in ROM and commonly referred to as RxBoot. RxBoot looks very similar
to the normal IOS; however, it does not provide the majority of the IOS’s services.
This mini IOS provides just enough functionality to reach a TFTP server and download a working IOS to the Cisco device. You can easily determine you are in RxBoot if
the prompt looks like Router(boot)> in a router or Switch(boot)> in a switch.
. 0x2102-0x210F—When the last field in the configuration register is 2-F, the router or

switch boots normally.
Assuming the configuration register is 0x2102 (meaning it has not been modified and the boot
field value is 2-F), the next step for initialization is to have the bootstrap search the configuration located in NVRAM to see whether the Cisco administrator has placed a command telling
the router or switch specifically where to boot. The tools to do this are known as boot
system commands. For example, if you have previously configured your device and put in the
boot system tftp c2600-do3s-mz.120-5.T1 172.16.1.1 command, you have instructed
the bootstrap to load the IOS file c2600-do3s-mz.120-5.T1 from a TFTP server located at
172.16.1.1.

NOTE
Do not confuse this step with loading the configuration. This is just a step in the IOS loading process that
enables the bootstrap code to implement any configuration specifications you previously saved that told
the device where to boot. The configuration itself is not loaded until after the IOS is located and running.

09_0789735199_CH06.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 195

195

Router/Switch Startup Procedures

If the default configuration register is utilized and you have not configured the device with any
boot system commands, the default action of the bootstrap is to load the first IOS file in Flash
memory. After the file is found, it is decompressed and loaded into RAM. At this point, the
IOS is successfully loaded and running on your Cisco device.
What would happen if the IOS image were corrupted or missing? As with many functions of
Cisco devices, a couple of failsafes are put in place to keep the device in an operating state or
a mode in which you can get it back to an operating state. Specifically, if the Cisco router or
switch cannot locate a working IOS file, it broadcasts out all interfaces in the hopes that a
backup IOS file is stored on a TFTP server on its connected segments. If there isn’t a TFTP
server or the TFTP server does not contain a valid IOS file, the next failsafe for the IOS is to
go to RxBoot so you can manually locate a valid IOS and copy it to Flash for the next reboot.
If RxBoot becomes corrupted, the device inevitably boots to ROMmon.

EXAM ALERT
If the IOS is corrupt or missing from Flash and there is no network connectivity to reach a TFTP server,
RxBoot in ROM is loaded. If RxBoot is missing or corrupt, the router or switch boots to ROMmon.

Configuration Loading
With the IOS loaded, the router or switch is now able to apply any saved configuration
parameters. NVRAM is the first location where the device searches for the configuration.
Here, a file called startup-config contains all the previous configurations that were present
the last time an administrator saved the configuration. As the name states, this is the configuration that is loaded each time the Cisco device starts up. Similar to the IOS, after this configuration file is found, it is loaded into RAM as well. After the configuration is loaded and
running at this point, it is conveniently referred to as running-config.

EXAM ALERT
The running-config is the active configuration running in RAM.

Cisco devices do not ship with a stored startup configuration, which is why you have to initially configure Cisco devices through some means of out-of-band management such as the
console or auxiliary port. So the question begs, what happens when you initially turn on a new
Cisco router or switch, or if someone erases the startup-config?
Many Cisco devices attempt to do an autoinstall by downloading a configuration file from an
active TFTP server (similarly to the IOS) when they detect that the startup-config is not

09_0789735199_CH06.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 196

196

Chapter 6: Initial Cisco IOS Operations

located in NVRAM. Typically, these files contain enough configuration parameters (such as IP
addresses for interfaces) for you to Telnet into the device and configure the remaining parameters. If the Cisco device finds an autoinstall configuration file from a TFTP server, the device
loads the file and makes that the running-config. On the chance that you were not proactive
enough to have an autoinstall configuration on your TFTP server, the router or switch
prompts you for something called Setup Mode.

EXAM ALERT
It is imperative that you can identify the steps that a switch or router follows during initialization, the
memory or device architectures where these steps occur, and the fallback sequences when a failure
has occurred in the boot-up sequence.

Setup Mode
With non-CCNA technicians in mind, Cisco created Setup Mode so you can build a working
configuration on a device without having to memorize the nuances of the CLI of the IOS.
Setup Mode is a friendly interactive dialog in which the IOS asks the administrator questions
about common configuration parameters that enable the Cisco device to have basic operations. Illustrated in Figure 6.2, the Setup Mode dialog initially asks you whether you wish to
continue with Setup Mode. If you answer “no” to this question, you exit out of Setup Mode
and are brought immediately to a CLI EXEC session. In addition, if you want to cancel at any
point in the Setup Mode and get to the command prompt, you can use Ctrl+C to terminate
the setup dialog. After you complete all questions, Setup Mode displays the parameters that
you specified and asks you whether you want to use this configuration. If you answer “yes,”
the Cisco device saves your configuration and applies the settings to the device’s operations.

FIGURE 6.2

Setup Mode dialog.

EXAM ALERT
Remember that there are several ways to exit out of Setup Mode. You can answer “no” to the setup
dialog prompt or use Ctrl+C at any point while in Setup Mode.

09_0789735199_CH06.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 197

197

Router/Switch Startup Procedures

TIP
Throughout the configuration with the IOS, you may encounter several different types of interactive dialogs
similar to Setup Mode. To save yourself from unnecessary typing, you can use the default value that is
located in the brackets to answer any single-answer question by simply hitting the Enter key. For example,
notice in Figure 6.2, the Enter host name prompt contains the word Router in brackets. If you were
to press the Enter key at that prompt, this Cisco router would have a host name of Router.

Password Recovery
As the next chapter explains, you can secure access to your Cisco devices in several ways. In
times where you inherit a pre-configured device or accidentally forgot or mis-configured a
password, you need some loophole in the boot-up process that enables you to regain access to
the device. Once again, the configuration register plays a pivotal part in the quest to manipulate the natural order of Cisco device initialization.
The third character in the configuration register enables you to tell the device to ignore any
configurations that might be saved in NVRAM. If this field is changed from a 0 to a 4, the
device inevitably boots into Setup Mode because the router or switch is fooled that there is no
startup configuration. Now, with the configuration register changed to 0x2142, you can reconfigure the Cisco device creating your own unique passwords and save that configuration for
future device startups.

CAUTION
Don’t Forget the Natural Order Do not forget when performing password recovery to set your configuration register back to 0x2102. Failing to do so enforces your router to constantly ignore your configurations, causing your router or switch to repeatedly enter Setup Mode.

EXAM ALERT
Be sure to recognize that a configuration register of 0x2142 is a typical setting for performing password recovery.

REVIEW BREAK
To solidify the startup process, the following is a recap of the stages of the boot-up, any fallback procedures, and the memory locations involved:
1. POST, located in ROM, tests hardware.
2. Bootstrap, located in ROM, looks at the boot field in the configuration register to

locate IOS. 0x2100 boots to ROMMON located in ROM. 0x2101 boots to RxBoot,
located in ROM.

09_0789735199_CH06.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 198

198

Chapter 6: Initial Cisco IOS Operations
3. 0x2102-0x210F prompts bootstrap to parse startup-config in NVRAM for any boot

system commands. If it finds any commands, it does what they say.
4. If no boot system commands are found, the first file in Flash is loaded. If no file is

found in Flash, TFTP boots. If no IOS file is found from TFTP, the device goes to
RxBoot in ROM. If no RxBoot is found, the device goes to ROMmon mode.
5. After IOS is loaded, the configuration register is checked. If it is 0x2142, ignore
startup-config in NVRAM. If it is 0x2102, load startup-config in NVRAM. If

there is no startup-config, TFTP autoinstall. If no TFTP autoinstall configuration
is found, enter Setup Mode.

09_0789735199_CH06.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 199

199

Navigating the IOS


To gain access to a non-functioning device, you will need to use some means of out-of-band management such as the console or the auxiliary port. When the device is powered on, the POST in ROM tests
the hardware. Because the configuration register is 0x2102 (the default), the router searches for boot
system commands in the startup-config. Because there are no configurations stating where to boot, the
router looks into Flash. Unfortunately, the Flash memory does not have a complete IOS because the
upgrade process was interrupted. With that being said, the router tries to locate an IOS file on a TFTP
server. Because the scenario mentioned that there are no TFTP servers on the network, the router falls
back to RxBoot in ROM, which displays a prompt similar to Router(boot)>.

Navigating the IOS
Objective:

Describe the purpose and fundamental operation of the internetwork operating system
(IOS)
By now, you have a new-found love and respect for your Cisco equipment after knowing all
the work that occurs when you turn on your router or switch. What better way to prove that
love and respect but by mastering the IOS that the Cisco devices have so painstakingly found
and loaded for your administration and configuration pleasure? This section looks at the hierarchical levels of the IOS and what type of interactivity you can encounter at each level.

EXAM ALERT
You will be able to eliminate several distracting incorrect answers in the exam by recognizing the level
of the IOS hierarchy the commands will be found.

User EXEC
At your organization, you may have Level 1 technicians who are not strong in Cisco fundamentals; thus, you want to ensure only that they have access to basic troubleshooting and statistics without worrying that they might change the configuration or cause some other network catastrophe. Because a multitude of administrators might need to gain access to these
Cisco devices, it makes sense to ensure that the first level of IOS hierarchy they encounter is
somewhat limited in the extent of what can be done. This is the nature of User EXEC.
In User EXEC, you are limited in the number and type of commands that are available to you.
For instance, the majority of show commands are available at this level of the IOS hierarchy
because they do not detrimentally affect the router or the switch to perform these commands.

09_0789735199_CH06.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 200

200

Chapter 6: Initial Cisco IOS Operations

In addition, you can test IP connectivity to other devices with ping as well as remotely administer other devices or troubleshoot all the way up to Layer 7 with Telnet. The Cisco IOS
prompt for User EXEC is signified by the greater than sign (>) following the hostname of the
Cisco device. For example, a Cisco router and switch with their default hostnames would look
like Router> and Switch>, respectively. Figure 6.3 displays the commands that you have available at User EXEC.

FIGURE 6.3

User EXEC command display.

Privileged EXEC
Assuming you need to acquire more functionality from your Cisco devices beyond basic troubleshooting and statistical displays, you have to have another layer of the Cisco IOS hierarchy in which you have access to all commands. Happily named, Privileged EXEC is the next
level of the IOS, in which you have the same commands as you do in User EXEC, as well as
some commands that can alter the Cisco device’s functionality.
For example, in Privileged EXEC, you can perform debug commands that can show you hundreds of real-time routing and switching functions and report them to the console. Because
this can cause quite a processing strain on the device, these commands are reserved for only
those who can access Privileged EXEC. Additionally, some show commands such as show
startup-config and show running-config can be seen only by those who should be able
(privileged) to see the configuration of the devices (including passwords). Some other new
and dangerous commands available in Privileged EXEC include delete, clear, erase,
configure, copy, and reload (reboots the device), to name a few.
To gain access to Privileged EXEC, type the command enable from User EXEC. After you
press Enter, the prompt changes from > to #, signifying that you are now in Privileged EXEC
mode. Because anybody can read this section and learn how to get to these commands, it
makes sense to have some way for the IOS to prompt for a password to authorize those who

09_0789735199_CH06.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 201

201

Navigating the IOS

truly should be granted access. The next chapter discusses how to apply these passwords to
restrict who gains access from User EXEC to Privileged EXEC. To return back to User
EXEC, the reverse command is disable.

Global Configuration
One of the commands that you can access through Privileged EXEC is configure. This
means that we have to enter yet another level of the Cisco IOS to make any configuration
changes to the Cisco device. By typing the configure terminal command, you are telling the
Cisco IOS that you are going to configure the Cisco device via your terminal window. The new
level you enter after you complete this command is called Global Configuration. You can recognize it by looking at the command prompt, which will reflect Router(config)# for routers
and Switch(config)# for switches.
Figure 6.4 displays a partial output of just some of the commands that are available in Global
Configuration. Note that the commands delete, debug, clear, configure, and copy do not
show up in the list of commands. You have a different set of commands available to you at this
level of the IOS versus Privileged and User EXEC. This means that you must exit Global
Configuration to use these commands as well as show, reload, and other Privileged EXECspecific commands.
Of equal note, after you enter a command in the IOS, it is immediately applied to runningconfig and applied to the device’s operation. The configurations are not listed and then

applied later like batch files or executed compiled programs. Configuration help is shown in
Figure 6.4.

FIGURE 6.4 Partial Global Configuration command display.

09_0789735199_CH06.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 202

202

Chapter 6: Initial Cisco IOS Operations

EXAM ALERT
Newer releases of Cisco IOS are making it possible to utilize some of these commands across the levels of the Cisco IOS hierarchies. However, for exam purposes, put on a pair of Cisco horse blinders to
this new functionality and focus on the original levels and syntaxes described throughout this book.

As the name states, any configuration that is applied in this level applies globally to the Cisco
router or switch. Here we can perform configuration tasks such as changing the hostname of
the router or switch, creating a login banner, creating a password to prompt users trying to
gain access to Privileged EXEC, and many others. It is also at this level of the Cisco IOS hierarchy that you can enter several different sub-configuration modes to apply specific configurations for things such as interfaces, routing protocols, and EXEC lines (which are discussed
throughout this book).

Interface Configuration
Directly from Global Configuration, you can configure interface-specific commands that
apply only to interfaces specified in the configuration. Now you can enable the interfaces,
assign IP addresses, set speeds, and configure other interface commands. Once again, the commands that are available at this sub-configuration level of the IOS are not applicable at Global
Configuration or Privileged EXEC and User EXEC.
To configure an interface, you must specify the interface you want to configure. If the device
has fixed (non-modular) interfaces, you simply specify the type of interface followed by the
interface number (and remember Cisco routers start their numbering schema with 0). For
example, the 1600 series router has a fixed ethernet interface that cannot be removed from the
router. To configure that interface, you type interface Ethernet 0 from Global
Configuration. In modular devices, you may have to specify the module number as well as the
interface number because these devices can change functionality depending on the type of
module inserted into them. For example, to configure the second WAN serial interface on the
first module on a 3600 series router, you would input interface serial 0/1 where 0 is the
module number (first module starts with 0) and 1 is the interface. The prompt in Interface
Configuration Mode is displayed as Router(config-if)#, regardless of the interface type.
This means you must keep track of what interface you are configuring because the prompt
does not specify the type.

Line Configuration
Also accessed from Global Configuration, line configurations are specific to those EXEC lines
through which a user can gain access to the Cisco device. Specifically, you can configure
options such as logins and passwords for a user trying to gain User EXEC access to the console and auxiliary ports, as well as the 5 vty (virtual teletype) Telnet lines into a router or
switch. From Global Configuration, you must utilize the keyword, line, followed by the

09_0789735199_CH06.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 203

203

Navigating the IOS

EXEC line you want to configure. For example, to configure console-specific commands, you
would type line console 0 from Global Configuration. The prompt changes to
Router(config-line)#, regardless of the line you are configuring.

Context-Sensitive Help
Even though the Cisco IOS is a command-line interface, it is not without its help features to
help you through your navigation of the IOS. Specifically, to see what commands are available
at any level of the IOS, you can use the help feature of the IOS, the question mark. By typing
? (no Enter keystroke necessary) at any level of the IOS, you get a listing of all the commands
available and a brief description of the command, such as you saw in Figures 6.3 and 6.4.
Quite often, the list of available commands may extend beyond one terminal screen. This is
apparent because the string --More-- is displayed at the bottom of the list on the screen. To
see the next page of listed commands, you can press the space bar and the command list scrolls
another terminal screen’s length. If you prefer to see the commands line by line, you can keep
hitting the Enter key and it displays only the next command each time you press it. On the
chance that you have found the command you were looking for in the list, you can hit any key
(pause for inevitable “where’s the any key?” joke) to get back to the command prompt.
In some instances, you may not recall the command that you are looking for, but you do
remember the first letter of the command. Let’s say, for example, the command is in Global
Configuration and starts with the letter l. You could use the question mark and scroll through
all the commands; however, the IOS enables you to see the commands starting with l if you
type the letter, followed immediately by the question mark (no space in between), as illustrated in Figure 6.5. Similarly, if you remembered that the command started with log, you can type
those characters, followed immediately by the question mark, to see the commands logging
and login-string.

FIGURE 6.5

Global Configuration commands output starting

with l.

Keep in mind that many commands in the IOS require a string of keywords to comprehend
what you are trying to achieve with the command. For instance, if I was searching for the
command logging and hit the Enter key, the IOS would report back an error to the terminal
screen that the command was incomplete because it does not understand where I want to send
my logging information. If you are unsure of the commands available, once again, you use the
question mark for command help. In this case, you must put a space after the first keyword
followed by the question mark. The IOS then displays a list of commands that are valid after
the keyword logging, as displayed in Figure 6.6.

09_0789735199_CH06.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 204

204

Chapter 6: Initial Cisco IOS Operations

FIGURE 6.6

Valid commands following the keyword

logging.

EXAM ALERT
In the simulations on the Cisco exam, you can use ? for help when configuring or troubleshooting the
Cisco device. If you get stuck in a simulation, utilize the help feature extensively because you do not
get docked points for using this feature.

Abbreviations
To make things easy for administration, the Cisco IOS enables you to abbreviate commands as
long as you type enough characters for the IOS to interpret the command that you want to
input. For instance, the previous example involved trying to locate the command that started
with l in Global Configuration. Because there were several commands that started with l, you
would need to type in more characters to find the logging command. Specifically, you would
need to type logg, which is just enough characters for the IOS to understand that you want to
use the logging command. If you want the IOS to complete typing the command for you, you
can hit the Tab key and it autocompletes the command when you provide enough characters.

EXAM ALERT
The simulations on the exam support some of the abbreviations; however, not all of them are supported. With that being said, it is a good idea to be able to type the entire command in case it is not supported for abbreviation. The Tab autocomplete, however, is not supported on the exam simulations.

EXAM ALERT
Some multiple-choice questions and answers may show you the completed command, whereas others
may show you the abbreviated one. Do not discount a valid answer if the full command syntax is not used.

Shortcut Keys
To make terminal editing simpler and faster, Cisco has created several shortcut keystrokes that
can speed up IOS navigation. The most useful of these shortcuts enables you to cycle through
your command history to re-use or edit previously typed commands. You can use both the up
and down arrow keys or Ctrl+N and Ctrl+P (if arrow keys are not supported at your terminal)
to cycle through the last 10 commands in the history buffer relative to the level of the IOS you

09_0789735199_CH06.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 205

205

Navigating the IOS

are currently located. Table 6.2 lists some other useful terminal editing keystrokes that will help
you navigate within a command line.
TABLE 6.2

Cisco IOS Terminal Editing Keystrokes

Keystroke

Function

Ctrl+A

Move the cursor to the beginning of the command line.

Ctrl+E

Move the cursor to the end of the command line.

Ctrl+B

Move the cursor back one character.

Ctrl+F

Move the cursor forward one character.

Esc+B

Move the cursor back one word.

Esc+F

Move the cursor forward one word.

The terminal editing keys discussed so far are very useful for moving within a particular level
of the IOS. However, you need to know how to navigate back from those different levels of
the Cisco IOS. Namely, if you need to go back one level of the IOS, simply type the command
exit. For instance, if you are in the Interface Configuration mode of the IOS and you need to
go back to Global Configuration, just type exit, and your prompt display should change from
Router(config-if)# to Router(config)#.
Suppose you are back in the interface configuration and you need to ping or traceroute to your
neighbor or do a show command to verify that the interface is working. Recall that this variety of commands can be performed only in Privileged EXEC or User EXEC. To return to
these levels of the IOS hierarchy, you can type exit until you are all the way back. You can
also use the keystroke Ctrl+Z or the keyword end, which will automatically take you back to
Privileged EXEC, regardless of how deep in the configuration levels you happen to be.

Common Syntax Errors
As mentioned before, the IOS reports back error messages if you have not provided the correct
syntax for a command. The three syntax error messages that you may encounter are as follows:
. Ambiguous Command—This error is displayed when you have not typed enough

characters for the IOS to distinguish which command you want to use. In other words,
several commands start with those same characters, so you must type more letters of
the command for the IOS to recognize your particular command.
. Incomplete Command—The IOS has recognized your keyword syntax with this error

message; however, you need to add more keywords to tell the IOS what you want to do
with this command.
. Invalid Input—Also known as the “fat finger” error, this console error message is dis-

played when you mistype a command. The IOS displays a caret mark (^) at the point
up to which the IOS could understand your command.

09_0789735199_CH06.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 206

206

Chapter 6: Initial Cisco IOS Operations

Figure 6.7 displays an example for each of these three error console messages. Also notice that
this configuration snapshot now includes abbreviations to get into Privileged EXEC and
Global Configuration.

FIGURE 6.7

Error console messages.

STEP BY STEP
6.1 Navigating the IOS
1. Go into Privileged EXEC by typing enable or en (or any abbreviation you feel comfortable with). Use
Figure 6.8 as a loose reference of what the output might look like.
2. Enter Global Configuration by typing configure terminal or config t.
3. Enter the Line Configuration mode for the console by typing line console 0 or line con 0.
4. Look at the list of commands available by using ?.
5. Press the space bar to cycle page by page or Enter to cycle line by line.
6. Return back to Global Configuration by typing exit.
7. Enter the interface configuration for serial 0/0 by typing interface serial 0/0 or int ser 0/0.
8. Exit back to Privileged EXEC by typing Ctrl+Z or end.

FIGURE 6.8

IOS navigation step-by-step output.

09_0789735199_CH06.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 207

207

Chapter Summary

Chapter Summary
This chapter delved into the many intricacies surrounding the Cisco internetwork operating
system. Specifically, you learned at least five ways to gain access to the IOS. The two out-ofband methods are through the console and auxiliary interface. In-band methods such as Telnet,
HTTP, and SSH require some level on configuration of the Cisco devices before you can
remotely manage them.
To load the IOS, Cisco routers and switches have to complete a series of systematic stages.
Initially, the device tests the hardware and loads the bootstrap code, both located in ROM. If
the configuration register boot field has not been manipulated (values 0x2-0xF), then the bootstrap queries the startup-config in NVRAM for any boot system commands. If no commands are present, the first file in Flash memory is loaded into RAM. If the file in Flash is
missing or corrupt, the Cisco router or switch broadcasts for help to any local TFTP servers.
If that fallback fails, the router or switch returns back to ROM and loads RxBoot. After the
IOS is loaded, the Cisco device can load the startup configuration in NVRAM (assuming you
didn’t change the configuration register to 0x2142 for password recovery). If the startup configuration is not present, the router or switch tries to autoinstall from a TFTP server. If that
fails, the device enters the configuration dialog, Setup Mode.
If you were to cancel out of Setup Mode by answering “no” or typing Ctrl+C, you would give
yourself the opportunity to conquer the mighty mountain of the Cisco IOS navigation hierarchy because you would immediately enter into User EXEC mode. In User EXEC, you have
limited functionality (the majority of show commands, ping, traceroute, Telnet, and so on)
and would need to use the command enable to enter Privileged EXEC to gain access to all
the commands at that particular level. From here, you can enter Global Configuration by typing configure terminal to configure parameters that apply to the entire device. Global
Configuration can then be utilized as a jumping-off point to enter sub-configuration modes,
such as for interfaces, EXEC lines, routing protocols, and many other sub-configuration
modes.
At any point in the IOS, you can see the commands available by using ? at the command
prompt. If you were to get an ambiguous command error, the IOS requires that you enter
more characters to a keyword because multiple commands might share those beginning characters. You can easily discover the commands that start with certain character by immediately
typing ? after those letters. Incomplete Command errors signify that the command string
required more keywords to know what to do with the command keyword. To see the commands available after a specific keyword, you can also use the ? preceded by a space to see what
commands are valid. Invalid input errors indicate that the command was mistyped somewhere.
In these situations, you can cycle through the previous commands by using the up and down

09_0789735199_CH06.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 208

208

Chapter 6: Initial Cisco IOS Operations

arrows or Ctrl+P and Ctrl+N. After you find the mistyped command, you can use other terminal editing keys to navigate the cursor to the point where the mistake was made. To exit configuration modes, you can type exit to go back a level at a time. To go directly to Privileged
EXEC, type Ctrl+Z or end.

Exercises
6.1

Navigating a New Router

You have just received a new router that you will have to install at a customer’s location in two days. To
ensure you appear confident in your installation, you decide to take the router out for a test drive so you
can be comfortable with the IOS navigation before arriving onsite.
This exercise assumes you have a router to utilize that is not in production.

NOTE
If you do not have an actual router, you can always follow along by using simulated software such as
SemSim (www.semsim.com) or Boson’s NetSim (www.boson.com). If your budget is tight, open up
Notepad and type the commands as you would if you were in the router itself. Practicing these commands
and understanding the level of IOS at which they should be typed are critical to your success in the CCNA
exam and as a CCNA technician.



Global Configuration

On the next boot, this router instructs the bootstrap to immediately boot into RxBoot in
ROM. The prompt displays Router(boot)>, signifying that the manipulation was successful
and you are indeed in the mini-IOS.

CAUTION
Don’t Change Configuration Register Fields Unless Necessary In this book, we mention only a couple
of the boot field values and the configuration field values. Do not randomly experiment with the configuration register to see the outcome. You could very well change a configuration parameter that will cause the
router or switch to boot abnormally, change the console speed (leaving you guessing what speed you need
to use to get terminal connectivity), or not boot at all.
If you accidentally change these settings, you can try to change the configuration register back by forcing
the device to go directly to ROMmon mode on boot-up. From a console connection, turn on the device and
send a break sequence (Ctrl+Break Key in HyperTerminal) from your terminal window in the first 60 seconds. You see the rommon 1 > prompt, indicating that you are in ROM Monitor. From here, enter the following command:
rommon 1 >confreg 0x2102

You should see a response similar to the following:
You must reset or power cycle for new config to take effect
rommon 2 >

At this point, you can recycle the power on the device or type the ROMmon-specific command, reset, to
reboot the device because you have restored the default configuration register to ensure normal operations.

The second Global Configuration command to globally affect the startup sequence that was
mentioned in the previous chapter is the boot system command. With this command, you
can optionally instruct the bootstrap to boot from specific locations, and even tell it which file
to load if there are multiple IOS files at that location. Three different examples of the boot
system commands are as follows:
Router(config)#boot system tftp c2600-do3s-mz.120-5.T1 172.16.1.1
Router(config)#boot system flash c2600-do3s-mz.120-5.T1
Router(config)#boot system rom

The first command instructs the bootstrap to locate the IOS on the TFTP server located at
172.16.1.1. The second boot system command configures the bootstrap to specifically load
the IOS file c2600-do3s-mz.120-5.T1 in the possible event that Flash has multiple IOS
image files on it. The last boot system command forces the router to boot directly into ROM
upon initialization. In examples where you have multiple boot system commands in a
sequence, such as the example just given, the bootstrap tests each command in successive
order until it successfully locates and loads an IOS.

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 220

220

Chapter 7: Basic Cisco Configurations

Changing the Hostname
Objective:

Configure a router for additional administrative functionality
Throughout this and the last chapter, you saw that the default prompt for a router starts with
the hostname Router, and the hostname Switch for a Catalyst switch. You should change the
hostname to uniquely identify the Cisco device in your internetwork. This is especially useful
if you are using Telnet to remotely manage multiple devices and you need to identify to which
device you are connected. The syntax for the command to change the hostname of the Cisco
device is hostname, followed by the name you have chosen (up to 25 characters) as illustrated
here:
Router(config)#hostname CCNA2621
CCNA2621(config)#

Creating a Login Banner
Objective:

Configure a router for additional administrative functionality
It is advisable to display a login banner as a means to provide notice of acceptable use or as a
warning to anyone attempting to gain unauthorized access to your Cisco device. In Cisco
terms, this is known as the message of the day. This message is displayed to any user attempting to gain an EXEC session on all terminal lines in the IOS. An example configuration for
the message of the day is as follows:
CCNA2621(config)#banner motd # This is a private system and may be accessed only by
➥ authorized users. Unauthorized access is strictly prohibited and will be
➥ enforced to the full extent of the law.#

Notice that the banner motd (message of the day) command example contains a # character
before and after the message. This is known as a delimiting character and is used to inform the
IOS where your banner begins and ends. This can be any character, so it makes sense to use a
character that is not present in the banner itself. For instance, if the delimiting character were
“v”, the banner would be displayed as This is a pri.

EXAM ALERT
Remember that the command to configure a login banner is banner motd.

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 221

221

Global Configuration

CAUTION
No Need for a Warm Welcome Be extremely careful of the message that you choose in your login banner. A login banner can be useful if you need to seek legal action against an intruder to your Cisco device.
On the flip side, however, the wrong login banner can work against you. For example, if your login contains the word “welcome” or similar inviting words, this can be used as grounds for defense for an unauthorized user to gain access because it can be considered as invitation to your device.

Assigning a Password for Privileged EXEC Mode
Objective:

Configure a router for additional administrative functionality
Gaining access to Privileged EXEC essentially means you have access to all the functionality
of the IOS, including those commands that can detrimentally affect the router or switch. With
that being said, it makes sense to secure access to Privileged EXEC to ensure those who gain
access are indeed skilled and authorized to do so. This is achieved in Global Configuration
with the creation of an enable password, which prompts anyone attempting to access
Privileged EXEC with a password that is known only by those who truly are privileged.
The command to assign a password to gain access to Privileged EXEC can be achieved with
one of the following two commands:
CCNA2621(config)#enable password myenablepassword
CCNA2621(config)#enable secret mysecretpassword

TIP
Be careful not to accidentally put the additional keyword password after the enable secret command. Otherwise, your secret password would be “password,” followed by your actual password. In addition, the commands are case sensitive, so make sure you don’t accidentally put the wrong case in the
command.

So what is the difference between the two commands? The enable secret password is secure
because it utilizes a non-reversible one-way MD5 (Message Digest 5) cryptographic hash of
the password so it cannot be deciphered by anybody who can see the configuration. On the
other hand, the enable password command is in clear text and can be seen by anyone that
gains access to that configuration. In practice, it is customary to utilize the enable secret
command for the security that it provides over the enable password command. Figure 7.1
demonstrates a secure enable password configuration, and the resulting prompt that occurs
when you try to re-enter Privileged EXEC.

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 222

222

Chapter 7: Basic Cisco Configurations

FIGURE 7.1

Secure enable password example and output.

EXAM ALERT
When the enable password command and the enable secret password command are used in
the same configuration, the enable secret command overrides the enable password command. For example, using the preceding configuration examples above, the password would be
“mysecretpassword” to enter Privileged EXEC.

It is possible to encrypt the password used in the enable password command by using the following Global Configuration command:
CCNA2621(config)#service password-encryption

This command actually encrypts all clear text passwords in your configuration, including passwords you assign to the EXEC lines (discussed later). This is useful in case anyone happens to
actually see your configuration because the password cannot be distinguished visually upon
initial sight. Be advised, however, that the encryption used is a Cisco proprietary encryption,
which is easily broken to reveal the actual password. When choosing between this method and
the enable secret method for secure Privileged EXEC, use enable secret because its
encryption is exponentially stronger.

EXAM ALERT
The service password-encryption command encrypts all clear text passwords in the configuration with a Cisco proprietary encryption.

Domain Name–Specific Commands
Quite often, you have to test connectivity or connect to a multitude of devices from your
router or switch. Unless you have all their IP addresses memorized or you have a trusty topology map with you wherever you go, you might find it difficult to accurately recall their IP
address information. To assist you when such challenges arise, the Cisco IOS can statically or
dynamically support domain name resolution on the Cisco device. This way, you can refer to
the devices by a recognizable hostname versus an IP address.

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 223

223

Line Configurations

The command to create a static entry in the IOS configuration file is ip host. For example,
given the following command:
CCNA2621(config)#ip host corerouter 172.16.1.1

The IOS automatically forms a name-to-IP association in a host table so that every time you
refer to corerouter, it translates that hostname to the IP of 172.16.1.1.
In instances where there are far too many devices to create individual static host entries, you
might be better suited to have a DNS server keep the hostname-to-IP records. With that infrastructure in place, you can have your Cisco device use these servers for the name translation.
The command to specify the DNS sever(s) (up to 6) is the following:
CCNA2621(config)#ip name-server 172.16.1.254 172.16.1.100 172.16.1.2

Domain resolution is automatically enabled on your Cisco device. If you have not configured
a DNS server, it tries to resolve hostnames by sending a broadcast out all its active interfaces.
This can be irksome when you accidentally type a command in User or Privileged EXEC and
the IOS attempts to resolve the command thinking that it is a hostname. To disable this feature, use the following command:
CCNA2621(config)#no ip domain-lookup

NOTE
If you happen to have IOS version 12.2 or later, the command was changed to the non-hyphenated command no ip domain lookup.

Line Configurations
Objective:

Configure a router for additional administrative functionality
This chapter previously discussed how to secure access to Privileged EXEC by using the
enable password or enable secret command. However, this assumes that any administrators can still gain User EXEC to the Cisco device. The problem with this configuration is that
you can send excessive pings or Telnet to another device from your router or switch in User
EXEC. Because the ping and Telnet traffic are coming from your private router or switch,
they might not be blocked by a security device such as a firewall. This section looks into how
to secure access to the User EXEC by assigning a password on the EXEC lines into the Cisco
device.

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 224

224

Chapter 7: Basic Cisco Configurations

Securing Console Access to User EXEC
Console access necessitates that an admin have physical access to the device itself. If your Cisco
router or switch is physically accessible to non-authorized personnel (not highly recommended), you should take preventative measures to add another level of security by having the
devices prompt anybody trying to get to User EXEC via the console port for a password. The
following three commands ultimately achieve that goal:
CCNA2621(config)#line console 0
CCNA2621(config-line)#login
CCNA2621(config-line)#password myconsolepassword

The first command navigates the IOS to a sub-configuration mode for the console port. The
second command instructs the IOS to prompt anybody connecting to this EXEC line for a
login, using the password chosen in the third command.

TIP
It does not matter if you type the password command before the login command. The important factor
is that both commands are configured.

To add yet another additional level of security comfort, it is also advisable to have the IOS
close the console session after so much time of inactivity (no typing) in the session. After the
EXEC session is closed, the admin has to enter the console password (assuming the above
console configuration was in place) to get into User EXEC again. This is generally useful for
those emergency bathroom breaks that arise after a couple cups of coffee or those unscheduled fire drills.
By default, the console session closes after 10 minutes of inactivity which, unfortunately, is
plenty of time for someone to jump on to your terminal and change passwords and lock you
out if you are not present. To change that setting, use the exec-timeout command followed
by the number of minutes and seconds the IOS should wait to time out. For example, if you
want the console to close after 1 minute and 30 seconds of inactivity, the command should
reflect the following:
CCNA2621(config-line)#exec-timeout 1 30

EXAM ALERT
The exec-timeout command identifies how long the EXEC terminal session will remain active when
no commands are being typed. The syntax specifies the minutes followed by the seconds.

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 225

225

Line Configurations

TIP
The IOS sends all alerts and notification messages to the console port by default. Unfortunately, this sometimes interrupts the command you are typing. To make your Cisco device more polite and stop interrupting
you, use the logging synchronous command. After it is configured, the IOS waits until user input is
returned before sending notifications to the terminal session.

Securing Auxiliary Access to User EXEC
If your organization has decided to allow remote terminal access to your Cisco device through
an external modem or terminal server connected to the auxiliary port, you have added another means of getting to User EXEC that you must secure. The auxiliary port is slightly easier
to connect than the console port because physical access is no longer a mandate. As long as you
know the phone number to dial into the modem, you can gain access to a User EXEC session.
This ease of access should be counterbalanced with security measures to ensure authorized
users are connecting to this EXEC line.
Conveniently, the commands are practically identical to those used to secure a console connection. The only major difference is the navigation to the auxiliary port as opposed to the
console:
CCNA2621(config)#line auxiliary 0
CCNA2621(config-line)#login
CCNA2621(config-line)#password myauxpassword
CCNA2621(config-line)#exec-timeout 1 30

Securing Telnet Access to User EXEC
Telnet is by far one of the most insecure methods of establishing an EXEC session because any
user with IP connectivity to the device can initiate a Telnet session to it. For this reason, the
default state of these lines is to require that a vty password be set for anyone to achieve access
to User EXEC. Otherwise, you will receive an error similar to the following:
Password required, but none set

In addition, if you do not have an enable password set on the device, you are not able to enter
Privileged EXEC mode. The error you receive in this situation is the following:
% No password set

EXAM ALERT
Remember, by default a password must be set on the vty lines to give Telnet access to this device. An
enable password must be set to access Privileged EXEC over a Telnet session.

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 226

226

Chapter 7: Basic Cisco Configurations

Once again, the configuration is similar to those of the console and the auxiliary port; however, the navigation of the Telnet lines is slightly different than what you find with the rest. To
assign a login password to all the Telnet lines into the device, you must specify the range of
those vty lines in your navigation. For instance, most routers allow five Telnet sessions into
them. To encompass all the vty lines, you have to identify them starting with the first line
(remembering that numbering begins with 0), followed by the last (0-4 is a total of 5 lines), as
shown here:
CCNA2621(config)#line vty 0 4
CCNA2621(config-line)#login
CCNA2621(config-line)#password mytelnetpassword
CCNA2621(config-line)#exec-timeout 1 30

The question usually begs, “What would happen if you configured only line vty 0 or you
put a different password on each vty line?” To answer the first part of the question, if you configure only line vty 0, the router prompts the first user for a password. If another user tries
to connect with that first Telnet session still running, he cannot log in to the router (remembering that the default state is that a password must be set as mentioned in the earlier Exam
Tip).
On the other hand, if you assign different passwords to each of the vty lines, you can connect
on all the lines; however, you have no means of choosing or knowing to which vty line you are
connected. You would have to guess the password within three tries (IOS only allows three
attempts).

EXAM ALERT
Be sure you are easily able to supply a configuration to any number of the EXEC lines depending on the
scenario given.
Router Interface Configurations
Because a primary purpose of Cisco routers and switches is to transfer data between their
interfaces, the configuration parameters that you apply to these interfaces dramatically affect
how these devices operate in an internetwork. These interface configurations vary depending
on the type of interface you are configuring and even which Layer 2 frame encapsulation you
are utilizing for WAN interfaces. This section looks specifically at some of the basic configurations that you can apply to LAN and WAN interfaces on a router.

Assigning an IP Address
Objective:

Assign IP addresses
Recall from Chapter 1, “Standard Internetworking Models,” that the basic functionality of a
router is to forward packets from one network to another, using logical addressing. If you configure an IP address on an interface, that router systematically assumes that all packets that are
destined for that IP address’s network should be routed out that specific interface. For
instance, if you assign the IP address of 192.168.1.1 with a subnet mask of 255.255.255.0 on a
serial interface, the router automatically assumes when that interface is enabled that all packets destined for 192.168.1.x are to be sent out the WAN serial interface.
As you can see, assigning an IP address to an interface plays a pivotal role in a router’s primary
routing operation. The command to help fulfill that role on a given interface is ip address,
followed by the assigned IP address for that interface and the subnet mask. For instance, if you
wanted to assign the IP address of 192.168.1.1 with a subnet mask of 255.255.255.0 to the serial 0/0 interface of the 2600 modular router, the configuration would look like this:
Router(config)#interface serial 0/0
Router(config-if)#ip address 192.168.1.1 255.255.255.0

NOTE
Remember, if this was a router with a fixed interface (not modular), the command might look something
like this:
Router(config)#interface serial 0
Router(config-if)#ip address 192.168.1.1 255.255.255.0

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 229

229

Router Interface Configurations

The first line in the configuration navigates you to the appropriate interface that you wish to
configure. In this case, it is the first serial interface in the first module on the 2600 router (serial 0/0). The second command assigns the IP address of 192.168.1.1 to this interface. After this
interface is enabled (discussed in next section), this router forwards any packets destined for
192.168.1.x 255.255.255.0 out its serial 0/0 interface.

TIP
Because a router needs to forward packets between networks, you cannot configure two interfaces with IP
addresses that are part of the same subnet. For example, you cannot configure serial 0 for 192.168.1.1
255.255.255.0 and interface ethernet 0 with an IP of 192.168.1.2 255.255.255.0. Because both IPs exist
on the 192.168.1.0 network, the router cannot distinguish to which interface to send packets destined for
192.168.1.x. When a configuration error such as this is attempted, the router informs you that the IP network overlaps with another interface and does not let you assign the second IP address.

For documentation and reference, you can assign a description to this interface by using the
description command on the interface:
Router(config-if)#description This is my first interface description.

EXAM ALERT
The description interface command assigns a description to a specific interface.

Enabling the Interface
All router interfaces are in a disabled (shutdown) state by default. It is the duty of the configuring administrator to enable the interface by using the no shutdown command. If properly
configured and connected to the network, the interface comes up and begins routing data in
and out that interface. An example of administratively enabling the interface with the no
shutdown command is as follows:
Router(config)#interface serial 0/0
Router(config-if)#no shutdown

EXAM ALERT
You should be able to seamlessly assign an IP address on any interface and administratively enable it
for the exam.

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 230

230

Chapter 7: Basic Cisco Configurations

TIP
If your interface is not connected to any other devices to communicate at Layer 2, you can use the no
keepalives command on the interface to keep your interface active. A keepalive is a mechanism that
the IOS uses to send messages to itself or to the other end to ensure a network interface is alive.

LAN-Specific Commands
Many of the LAN interfaces on a router have auto-sensing capabilities such as duplex and
speed. For instance, a Fast Ethernet interface can run at speeds of 10mbps or 100mbps at halfor full-duplex. It is generally a good idea to manually assign an interface’s duplex in case your
connected device does not support auto negotiation. The configuration to manually set the
duplex on an interface is fairly straightforward, as follows:
Router(config)#interface FastEthernet 0/0
Router(config-if)#full-duplex

WAN-Specific Commands
When configuring synchronous serial interfaces, you may discover that you have to configure
some additional parameters to ensure proper functionality of your Wide Area Network
(WAN) interfaces. For instance, when you have a serial cross-over cable between two routers’
serial interfaces in a lab environment, the serial interface with the DCE cable attached to it has
to provide timing for the network for data to be recognized on this link. The command to provide this synchronous timing on the network is clock rate, followed by the speed in bits per
second.
Additionally, WAN serial interfaces automatically assume that the circuit connected to them
is of T1 speed (1.54mbps). In instances where you have set a lower clock rate or you are connecting to a WAN service that is using sub-T1 speeds or virtual circuits (discussed later in
Chapter 15, “Wide Area Networks”), it is imperative to redefine the bandwidth that is connected to the interface for accurate operation of routing decisions. You can achieve this redefinition by using the bandwidth command followed by the speed of the circuit in kilobits per
second.
The following configuration demonstrates both of these commands in action for a router in a
lab simulating a 64kbps circuit:
Router(config)#interface Serial 0/0
Router(config-if)#clock rate 64000
Router(config-if)#bandwidth 64

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 231

231

Switch-Specific Commands

Switch-Specific Commands
Objective:

Perform an initial configuration on a switch
Catalyst switches, for the most part, are designed so that the default state of switch allows for
basic Layer 2 functionality without requiring any configuration from the administrator. For
example, the physical interfaces on the switch are already enabled, which means that you can
plug a cable in the switch and the interface operates without requiring you to perform a no
shutdown on that interface. Does that mean you don’t have to learn about Catalyst switch
commands? No such luck.

NOTE
Switch ethernet interfaces are commonly referred to as ports.

These next sections look at a few commands that cover some of the basic administrative functions within the switch. In Chapter 8, “Bridging and Switching Operations,” and Chapter 9,
“Virtual LANs,” you will explore some of the more advanced functions and commands that
you can perform on the Catalyst switch.

Assigning a Management IP Address to a Switch
Objective:

Assign IP addresses
Cisco Layer 2 switches forward frames solely based upon MAC addresses. On the other hand,
Layer 3 switches and routers use IP addresses in their data forwarding decisions. So why
assign an IP address to a Layer 2 switch?
Chapter 6, “Initial Cisco IOS Operations,” mentioned that to remotely manage a device via
SSH, Telnet, or HTTP, you need to have IP connectivity to the switch. Likewise, if you were
to manage the switch using SNMP, you would also have to program your management server to use its IP address to gather statistics from the switch. All these management functions
assume that an IP address is assigned to the device, which in the Catalyst switch’s case does
not have an IP address in its default configuration.
Unlike Cisco routers, Layer 2 switches do not assign IP addresses on all the physical interfaces. In fact, the interface to which you assign an IP address on a Layer 2 Catalyst switch is
actually a virtual interface called VLAN 1 (Chapter 9 discusses the significance of VLAN 1).

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 232

232

Chapter 7: Basic Cisco Configurations

To assign an IP address to the entire switch, you use exactly the same syntax as a router’s physical interface to configure the VLAN 1 interface:
Switch(config)#interface VLAN1
Switch(config-if)#ip address 172.16.1.100 255.255.0.0

Defining a Default Gateway
If you were to Telnet into the switch from the terminal on the far network, the Telnet traffic
would traverse through the local router, across the WAN link, through the remote router, and
finally to the switch. To return the Telnet traffic back to the terminal, the switch would have
to send it to a routing device because the terminal is on another network. To instruct the
switch to send any traffic destined for another network to that router, you have to define a
default gateway (also known as a gateway of last resort) 
The command to configure a default gateway is ip default-gateway, followed by the IP
address of the router that is on the switch’s segment in Global Configuration. Using the example in Figure 7.2, the configuration would look like the following:
Switch(config)#ip default-gateway 172.16.1.1

EXAM ALERT
It is essential that you understand the syntax and purpose behind the ip default-gateway command in a switch before taking the exam.


Saving Configurations

Configuring Multiple Switch Interfaces
By design, switches may have a plethora of interfaces that may require a similar configuration.
For instance, if the first 20 ports of your switch need to be set to a speed of 100mbs and full
duplex, you would be undertaking quite an administrative task of typing the same commands
into each interface configuration for all 20 interfaces. To save time, the Catalyst switch’s IOS
contains a navigation and configuration command shortcut called interface range that
enables you to define a range of switch ports and configure them simultaneously. The configuration can be condensed to something like this:
Switch(config)#interface range FastEthernet 0/1 – 20
Switch(config-if)#speed 100
Switch(config-if)#duplex full

TIP
Note that the syntax of the interface range command requires you to put a space between the starting and ending interfaces in the range separated by a hyphen.

NOTE
You can manually override the default auto-negotiating speed and duplex settings for each interface as
demonstrated. Note the syntax is slightly different for changing the duplex on a switch port versus a router
interface.

Saving Configurations
Objective:

Perform an initial configuration on a router and save the resultant configuration file
If you are like me, you like living on the edge by configuring your devices during scheduled
brown-outs in a room full of people with size 15 feet who are prone to accidentally kick the
power cord out of your Cisco device. The problem with that lifestyle is that when the power
returns to your router or switch, the hard work you put into your configuration is gone
because all your configurations were made to the running configuration stored in volatile
RAM. This is unfortunately true, unless of course, you save your configuration file into
NVRAM and make that your startup configuration.
The versatile command that deserves all this credit for saving your hides is the copy command. With this command, you are telling the IOS to copy a file from one file system to
another. Some options you have after the copy command are running-config, startup-

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 234

234

Chapter 7: Basic Cisco Configurations
config, flash, and tftp. The last two are discussed later in this chapter; the Global

Configuration command to save the configuration in a switch or router IOS is as follows:
Router(config)#copy running-config startup-config

EXAM ALERT
Although a source of debate these days, it is rumored that you do not need to save the configuration in
a simulation. Despite my danger-seeking lifestyle, I highly recommend you err on the safe side by saving your configuration.

TIP
After performing the copy running-config startup-config, later IOSs ask you for the filename
that you want to call the configuration file with [startup-config] in brackets. If you hit the Enter key,
it saves it as the startup-config that will be loaded on next reboot. Saving it with a different filename saves
the configuration, but that configuration will not be the one that is loaded.

EXAM ALERT
If you want to return your router or switch to its default configuration, you can use the Privileged EXEC
command, erase startup-config, and reboot the device with the reload command. After the
router or switch reboots, you should enter into Setup Mode because the configuration in NVRAM was
erased.

STEP BY STEP
7.1 Configuring Router Interfaces
1. Go into Privileged EXEC by typing enable.
2. Enter Global Configuration by typing configure terminal.
3. Go into the Fast Ethernet interface 0/0 and configure the IP address of 172.16.1.1 /16 by typing ip
address 172.16.1.1 255.255.0.0.
4. Enable the interface using the no shutdown command.
5. Type exit and go into the Serial interface 0/0 and configure the IP address of 192.168.1.1 /24 by typing ip address 192.168.1.1 255.255.255.0.
6. Enable the interface by using the no shutdown command.
7. Type end or press Ctrl+Z to go back to Privileged EXEC, and save the configuration by using copy
running-config startup-config.



Using the show Command to Get
Information
Objective:

Use a subset of Cisco IOS commands to analyze and report network problems
As an administrator of Cisco routers and switches, it is inevitable that you will have to get
information and statistics to verify the functionality of those devices and the networks that are
connected to them. The crux of every command to view these statistics is the show keyword.
This section explains what information you can gain from several of these show commands and
tells you how to interpret outputs of those commands.

Verifying Your Configurations
Without a doubt, verifying your configurations is one of the most widely used show functions
in the Cisco IOS. What better way to double-check or troubleshoot your configuration could
there be seeing it displayed right in front of you? One caveat to these particular show commands, however, is that you must be in Privileged EXEC to see the configurations. This makes
logical sense because you don’t want anybody from User EXEC to see your passwords in the
configurations.
To see the active configuration that is running in RAM (that is, running-config), simply type
show running-config. Similarly, the command show startup-config displays the configu-

ration that will be loaded after you reboot the router or switch. The following example shows
the show running-config command, and the output of some of the router configurations discussed in this chapter, performed on a 1601 router with fixed interfaces:
CCNA1601#show running-config
Building configuration...
Current configuration:

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 236

236

Chapter 7: Basic Cisco Configurations
!
version 12.0
service timestamps debug uptime
service timestamps log uptime
service password-encryption
!
hostname CCNA1601
!
enable secret 5 $1$nLCr$gNidpLSZvMnm2wFW6ACLm0
enable password 7 14120A0A0107382A29
!
ip subnet-zero
ip host corerouter 172.16.1.1
ip name-server 172.16.1.254
!
interface Ethernet0
ip address 172.16.1.1 255.255.0.0
no ip directed-broadcast
full-duplex
!
interface Serial0
bandwidth 64
ip address 192.168.1.1 255.255.255.0
no ip directed-broadcast
no fair-queue
!
ip classless
no ip http server
!
banner motd ^C This is a private system and may be accessed only by authorized users.
➥Unauthorized access is strictly prohibited and will be enforced to the full
➥ extent of the law.^C
!
line con 0
exec-timeout 1 30
password 7 045802150C2E
login
line vty 0 4
exec-timeout 1 30
password 7 02050D480809
login
!
End

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 237

237

Using the show Command to Get Information

NOTE
Notice that in the output of the show running-config command there are commands such as
service timestamps debug uptime, ip subnet-zero, and so on that have not been discussed. These are all configurations that are created by default by the IOS, and may vary depending on the
version of the IOS that is loaded. On that same note, some configurations do not even show up in the IOS
configuration even though they are configured on the router or switch. For instance, both interfaces were
administratively enabled in this configuration despite the lack of the command no shutdown being displayed on each interface configuration.

EXAM ALERT
One of your best resources on a simulation that has a troubleshooting scenario is the show
running-config command. By looking at the configuration and recognizing incorrect or missing
entries, you can determine what items must be fixed in a particular device to regain connectivity in the
simulated network.

Viewing Interface Statuses and Statistics
Beyond a doubt, the next four show commands will serve as the most useful tools in
determining interface functionality and the performance of the network connected to those
interfaces. Some of the outputs for these interface-specific show commands display similar statistics; nevertheless, each command serves a unique purpose depending on what facet of the
interfaces you are trying to investigate.

Show Interfaces
The most detailed show command that displays statistics about the status of the interfaces and
the network traffic for that interface is the show interfaces command. This command shows
you statistics for all interfaces on the router or switch; however, if you wish to view information about only a single interface, you can specify that interface in the command (for example,
show interfaces serial 0/0). Figure 7.4 illustrates the show interface output for a fast
ethernet interface.
A common statistic of most of the interface show commands is the actual status of the interface itself. This is identified in the first line of output of the show interfaces commands. The
first part of the status identifies the Layer 1 information of the interface, followed by the Layer
2 line protocol status.
If you understand the interface statuses you are ultimately building a solid foundation to accurately troubleshoot any malfunctioning interface. For example, if your interface is in an
“up/line protocol up” state, you have eliminated Layer 1 and Layer 2 malfunctions for that
interface. From this point, you can determine whether the problem on the interface is perhaps
a Layer 3 problem (IP addressing, routing, and so on). Table 7.1 lists the possible values of this
command.

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 238

238

Chapter 7: Basic Cisco Configurations

FIGURE 7.4

TABLE 7.1

FastEthernet show interfaces output.

Interface Status Values

Layer 1

Layer 2 (line protocol)

Possible Symptoms

Up

Up

None. Interface is functional.

Up

Down

Encapsulation mismatch, lack of clocking on serial interfaces, missing keepalives.

Down

Down

Cable is disconnected or attached to a shut down interface on the far-end device.

Administratively Down

Down

Local interface was not enabled with the no
shutdown command.

EXAM ALERT
Be able to recognize the interface status meanings and determine the possible reasons for that status.

The rest of the output of the show interfaces command is also extremely useful for gaining
information about the interface and the network. Of course, you won’t be expected to know
all the elements listed in this output; however, Table 7.2 displays some of the valuable common statistics descriptions.
TABLE 7.2

Show Interface Output Descriptions

Output

Description

Hardware is AmdFE, address
is 0003.e32a.4080

The MAC address of the ethernet interface.

Internet address

Assigned IP address.
(continues)

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 239

239

Using the show Command to Get Information

TABLE 7.2

Continued

Output

Description

MTU 1500 bytes, BW 100000 Kbit, DLY 100
usec, reliability 255/255, txload 1/255,
rxload 1/255

The Maximum Transmission Unit (frame size)
for this interface, logical bandwidth (default or
set with bandwidth command), cumulative delay,
interface reliability, inbound and outbound load.

Encapsulation ARPA

Layer 2 frame encapsulation on interface.

Half-duplex, 100Mb/s, 100BaseTX/FX

Duplex and speed of interface.

Received 0 broadcasts, 0 runts, 0 giants The number of broadcasts, runts (below mini-

mum frame size), and giants (above maximum
frame size).
0 collisions

The number of collisions that occurred on that
segment.

0 late collision

Late collisions occur when your interface is set
for half-duplex and you are connected to a fullduplex interface.

EXAM ALERT
You may be presented with the output of a show interface command with the intention of testing
your knowledge of being able to identify problematic elements in the output. For instance, a high load
value is evidence of a saturated link, a large number of late collisions is a duplex mismatch, excessive collisions might be indicative of being plugged into a hub, and so on.

Show IP Interface Brief
If the goal of your show command is to get a condensed output of the interfaces’ status and
their IP addresses, the show ip interface brief command conveniently shows you a minimal display of these statistics as illustrated in Figure 7.5.

FIGURE 7.5

show ip interfaces brief

output.

Show Controller
Although the output of the show controller command is unintelligible to everyone except
for the Cisco TAC (Technical Assistance Center), one particularly useful extract from this output is in the show controller serial command. The needle in this haystack of statistics is

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 240

240

Chapter 7: Basic Cisco Configurations

the line of output that identifies whether a DTE or a DCE cable is attached to the serial interface. This is useful if you are connecting to your router remotely and you are not sure whether
your router should be providing the clocking (if you are the DCE interface). The following
excerpt example illustrates this useful output:
Router>show controller serial 0/1
Interface Serial0/1
Hardware is PowerQUICC MPC860
V.35 DCE cable, clockrate 64000
...output omitted...

IOS File Version Show Commands
The following section discusses how to back up your IOS to a TFTP server or download a new
version of the IOS to your router or switch. Tasks of this magnitude, however, cannot be performed unless you do some initial legwork. Namely, you must perform some essential steps
such as identifying the amount of Flash memory, the IOS filename located in Flash, and the
current IOS version that is running on the device.
Different Cisco IOS versions and feature sets will ultimately dictate the size of the IOS file and
the amount of Flash and DRAM memory required to run the IOS. If you are planning to
upgrade to a new IOS, you must make sure that you have enough memory (the more, the better) in your device. To see the amount of Flash you have and the current IOS file stored in
Flash memory, utilize the show flash command as follows:
Router>show flash
System flash directory:
File Length
Name/status
1
5510192 c2600-is-mz.120-3.T3.bin
[5510256 bytes used, 2878352 available, 8388608 total]
8192K bytes of processor board System flash (Read/Write)

Typically, the filename of the IOS file in Flash correctly reflects the actual IOS version running currently on the device. However, an administrator can easily change the filename to his
or her own purposes, or there could be multiple IOS files stored on the Flash and you are not
sure which one is running currently. To ensure the correct version of IOS, use the widely practical show version command.
Demonstrated in Figure 7.6, the show version command displays a plethora of information
well beyond the version of the IOS running. Table 7.3 explains some of the useful output of
this multifaceted command.

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 241

241

Using the show Command to Get Information

FIGURE 7.6

TABLE 7.3

show version output.

show version Output Descriptions

Output

Description

IOS (tm) C2600 Software (C2600-IS-M),
The IOS feature set, version, and release.
Version 12.0(3)T3, RELEASE SOFTWARE (fc1)
ROM: System Bootstrap, Version 11.3(2)XA4

The version of the bootstrap code in ROM.

Router uptime is 8 hours, 8 minutes

The length of time the device has been
running.

System restarted by reload

How the device was started.

System image file is
“flash:c2600-is-mz.120-3.T3.bin”

The name of the IOS file that was loaded and
the location of that file.

with 28672K/4096K bytes of memory

The amount of RAM in the system allocated
to the devices processor, followed by memory allocated for packets. The total RAM is
calculated by adding the two values together
(28672K+4096K=32858K, or 32MB).

32K bytes of non-volatile configuration
memory.

The amount of NVRAM for the startup-config.

8192K bytes of processor board System
flash (Read/Write)

Total amount of Flash memory.

Configuration register is 0x2102

The current configuration register.

EXAM ALERT
Be able to rattle off all the information that you can extract from the show version command,
including the current loaded IOS version, configuration register, and total memory of RAM, NVRAM,
and Flash.

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 242

242

Chapter 7: Basic Cisco Configurations

REVIEW BREAK
Table 7.4 reviews the show commands discussed in this chapter, including their functions and
whether they are in User EXEC or both User EXEC and Privileged EXEC.
TABLE 7.4

show Command Review

Command

User EXEC/ Privileged EXEC

Output

show running-config

Privileged EXEC

Current configuration in RAM.

show startup-config

Privileged EXEC

Configuration in NVRAM to be loaded at
next boot.

show interfaces

Both

Interface status, IP address, encapsulation, bandwidth, reliability, load, MTU,
duplex, network statistics.

show ip interface brief

Both

IP address and status of interfaces.

show controller serial

Both

Microcode of interface, including
whether DTE or DCE cable is attached.

show flash

Both

IOS filename and amount of used and
available Flash memory.

show version

Both

IOS version, IOS filename, uptime, memory amounts, configuration register.

Troubleshooting Commands
Objective:

Use embedded Layer 3 through Layer 7 protocols to establish, test, suspend, or disconnect connectivity to remote devices from the router console
Troubleshooting a Cisco device and the networks to which it is connected is an integral part
of being a Cisco administrator. Most of your troubleshooting can be solved by verifying your
configurations and the device’s operations, using the show commands mentioned in the previous section. However, at times you may need to use additional commands to help identify and
troubleshoot faults in the network.
Specifically, the clear command in Privileged EXEC resets statistical information that is
being stored for the outputs of your show commands. For example, if you saw that the output
of the show interfaces serial 0/0 command and noticed excessive late collisions, how do
you know whether those are recent statistics or collisions that occurred last week? Using the
clear counters command resets those statistics so you can view up-to-date information from
the show interfaces output.

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 243

243

Troubleshooting Commands

One of the most widely utilized commands for troubleshooting is the ping command. ping
uses ICMP echo and echo reply messages to verify connectivity to IP devices. To ping a specific device from User EXEC or Privileged EXEC, enter ping followed by the IP address or
hostname of the device you are trying to verify, as follows:
Router#ping 192.168.1.1
Type escape sequence to abort.
Sending 5, 100-byte ICMP Echos to 192.168.1.1, timeout is 2 seconds:
.!!!!
Success rate is 80 percent (4/5)

Notice that the ping response contains a period (.) followed by four exclamation marks (!). An
exclamation mark character is indicative of a successful receipt of a reply to the ping. The period character indicates that a timeout has occurred for that particular ICMP echo packet. In
some instances, you may receive a U character, which signifies a Destination Unreachable
ICMP message. These messages are indicative that a router along the packet’s path to the destination did not know how to reach the destination network. When this occurs, the router
sends a Destination Unreachable message back to the packet’s source.

EXAM ALERT
ICMP Destination Unreachable messages are sent by a routing device when it does not know how to
reach the destination network. The router sends this ICMP message back to the packet’s source.

NOTE
Notice that in the output of the ping command, the first ping packet timed out. This actually is quite normal when pinging a device on a LAN because the router or switch might have to resolve the MAC address
on the data link segment with an ARP request. Any successive pings shortly after should receive 100% of
replies.

Similar to other operating systems, you can manipulate some of the options in a ping echo
request, such as the datagram size and the timeout period in the Cisco IOS. To specify these
options, you need to use an extended ping command. This command requires you to be in
Privileged EXEC and is used by typing ping followed by the Enter key (no IP address). From
there, you can change the default parameters such as the datagram sizes, timeout, and the
number of packets sent, as shown in the following example:
Router#ping
Target IP address: 192.168.1.1
Repeat count [5]: 10
Datagram size [100]: 200
Timeout in seconds [2]: 5
Extended commands [n]: y

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 244

244

Chapter 7: Basic Cisco Configurations
Source address or interface:
Type of service [0]:
Set DF bit in IP header? [no]:
Validate reply data? [no]:
Data pattern [0xABCD]:
Loose, Strict, Record, Timestamp, Verbose[none]:
Sweep range of sizes [n]:
Type escape sequence to abort 192.168.1.1, timeout is 5 seconds:
!!!!!!!!!
Success rate is 100 percent (10/10)

EXAM ALERT
The extended ping must be entered in Privileged EXEC. The command is ping followed by the Enter
key.

Another useful ICMP utility is the traceroute command. As the name states, traceroute
sends ICMP messages and receives a reply from every routing device along the path to the
destination. This is useful in situations where you suspect a router on the route to an unreachable network is failing. The command syntax for traceroute is similar to the ping command.
In fact, you can also perform an extended traceroute by using the traceroute command in
lieu of the ping keyword.
Router#trace 192.168.1.1
Tracing the route to 192.168.1.1
1 192.168.100.1 4 msec 0 msec 4 msec
2 10.1.1.3 4 msec 4 msec 0 msec
3 192.168.1.1 0 msec 0 msec 4 msec

EXAM ALERT
traceroute is an ICMP utility that tests the connectivity to a device by receiving responses from

each routing device along the path to the destination. It is especially useful when you suspect a router
on the route to an unreachable network is failing.

The final troubleshooting command (for now) is another exclusive Privileged EXEC command that should be used only when all other troubleshooting has failed. The debug command displays real-time information on such things as routing updates, packet forwarding,
and interface keepalives, to name a few. The reason behind the cautionary tone of this explanation is because the debug command is very processor intensive and can generate a lot of
information on your terminal screen. For this reason, it is highly recommended that you use

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 245

245

Backing Up and Restoring Configurations and IOS Using TFTP

these commands only in emergency situations or in a lab environment. If you must troubleshoot on a production router, be sure to issue the show processes command as follows:
RouterA#show processes
CPU utilization for five seconds: 0%/0%; one minute: 0%; five minutes: 0%
...Output Omitted...

The majority of the output will not make sense; however, the top of the output lists the CPU
utilization up to the last 5 minutes. If any of these values exceeds 60%, do not use the debug
commands. If you do, your router is likely to seize up from over-utilization.

EXAM ALERT
It is recommended to use the show processes command before using any debug commands to verify the router’s current CPU utilization.

When you are finished troubleshooting, you can turn off debugging by putting a no in front
of the command, or you can turn off all debugging by typing no debug all or undebug all.
Specific debugging commands are discussed throughout the course of this book.

EXAM ALERT
If your device is seizing up from too much debug processing, turn it off by using the no debug all
or undebug all commands.

TIP
To see accurate timestamps for your debug messages, it is highly recommended that you configure the
clock to reflect the correct date and time by using the clock command in Privileged EXEC. In addition, to
add a timestamp to the debug output, use the service timestamp command in Global Configuration.

Backing Up and Restoring Configurations
and IOS Using TFTP
Objective:

Manage system image and device configuration files
Recall from the “Saving Configurations” section that you used the copy command to copy the
running config in RAM to the startup config in NVRAM. By using this command, you are

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 246

246

Chapter 7: Basic Cisco Configurations

basically copying this configuration file from one filesystem component to another. Such is the
case if you want to back up and restore configurations and IOSs to and from a TFTP server.

EXAM ALERT
The TFTP server is used to back up and restore configurations and IOS images.

A fair amount of setup and preparation is required to achieve this functionality, but the
rewards of being able to back up and restore these files are well worth it. Specifically, the following preparations need to be in place for your switch or router to transfer these files to and
from a TFTP server:
1. The TFTP server must have the TFTP service running. You can search the Internet

for evaluation TFTP servers from companies such as SolarWinds and FutureSoft.
2. Your device must be cabled correctly. If you’re using a switch, plug the TFTP server

into the switch with a straight-through ethernet cable. If you’re going directly
between a router and the TFTP server, use a cross-over cable.
3. You must have IP connectivity to the server. In other words, your interface should be

on the same subnet as the server.
4. There must be enough room on the TFTP server and your device’s memory to store

these files. If your Flash memory cannot store two files, the IOS erases the old file
from Flash memory before copying the new one.

EXAM ALERT
Know the preparation steps involved in setting up your network to ensure that files can be transferred
between your Cisco device and a TFTP server.

After all the preparations are in place, and you have verified connectivity between the TFTP
server and your Cisco router or switch, you can use the copy command again to transfer files.
Remember, the copy command instructs the IOS to copy from somewhere to somewhere.
The available keywords, once again, are startup-config, running-config, tftp, and flash.
When the tftp keyword is used, the IOS follows up with a few subsequent questions to help
the IOS identify the IP address of the server, and the filenames of the source and destination
files.

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 247

247

Backing Up and Restoring Configurations and IOS Using TFTP

For example, to back up the IOS stored in Flash, your command would look something like
the following:
Router#copy tftp flash
Address or name of remote host []? 172.16.1.254
Source filename []? c2600-is-mz.120-3.T3.bin
Destination filename [c2600-is-mz.120-3.T3.bin]?
Copy ‘c2600-is-mz.120-3.T3.bin’ from Flash to server
as ‘c2600-is-mz.120-3.T3.bin’? [yes/no]y
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
...output immited...
Upload to server done
Flash device copy took 00:01:24 [hh:mm:ss]

NOTE
Similar to utilities such as ping and traceroute, successful copying of files to and from a TFTP server
is displayed with an exclamation mark (!).

Similarly, if you wanted to upgrade your IOS to a new version or you want to restore a previously backed up IOS from your TFTP server, the command would be copy flash tftp.
Remember, if your flash memory does not have enough space for your current IOS file and
the new one, the process erases your old IOS file to make room for the new one. If you accidentally lose power during the file transfer, you inevitably end up in RxBoot. At that point,
you can download the IOS again from the TFTP server using the same command.
After the IOS image is loaded to your Flash memory, you have to reboot the device for that
IOS to run (because your current IOS is still decompressed and running in RAM). To reboot
a Cisco device, use the reload command from Privileged EXEC. Do not forget to save any
configuration changes that you made with the copy running-config startup-config command before rebooting the device because the router or switch uses the contents of your startup configuration when it reinitializes. In many current IOS versions, the IOS reminds you
that your configuration has modified and asks you whether you want to save it. Answering
“yes” to this prompt saves your configuration to NVRAM.
Router#reload
System configuration has been modified. Save? [yes/no]: yes
Building configuration...
[OK]
Proceed with reload? [confirm]
04:31:02: %SYS-5-RELOAD: Reload requested

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 248

248

Chapter 7: Basic Cisco Configurations

EXAM ALERT
The reload Privileged EXEC command reinitializes the router or switch. The content in the startup
configuration is loaded on boot-up.

The copy command can also be used to back up and restore your configurations. For example,
to back up your current configuration, you can type copy running-config flash.
Alternatively, you can always save your configuration to a text file by capturing the text output
of your terminal program and doing the show running-config command. If you want to paste
the configuration back into the Cisco device, just go into Global Configuration and paste the
text back into the terminal program window.

EXAM ALERT
The show running-config command does not show commands such as no shutdown. If you
paste the configuration into a new configuration, the interfaces remain shut down unless you edit the
text file and place the no shutdown command in the interface configurations or enter the commands
in the configuration afterward.

Neighbor Discovery with CDP
Objective:

Use embedded Data Link layer functionality to perform network neighbor discovery
and analysis from the router
Determine IP addresses
Imagine it is your first day at work and your boss wants you to create a topology map of the
network, including model numbers, IPs, and IOS versions of all the Cisco equipment. Eager
to impress the boss, you want to get this task done as soon as possible. The problem is that
the equipment isn’t allocated in the same building and your security badge won’t allow you
into other buildings. Thus, console access isn’t possible and you don’t know the IP addresses
of the other devices to Telnet into them. Instead of spending that free time looking in the
want ads because you are afraid you are going to get fired, you can call upon a very useful protocol called Cisco Discovery Protocol (CDP) to gather information of directly connected
Cisco neighbors.
As the name indicates, CDP is a Cisco proprietary protocol that operates at the Data Link
layer. One unique feature about operating at Layer 2 is that CDP functions regardless of what
Physical layer media you are using (UTP, fiber, and so on) and what Network layer routed

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 249

249

Neighbor Discovery with CDP

protocols you are running (IP, IPX, AppleTalk, and so on). CDP is enabled on all Cisco devices
by default, and is multicast every 60 seconds out of all functioning interfaces, enabling neighbor Cisco devices to collect information about each other. Although this is a multicast message, Cisco switches do not flood that out to all their neighbors as they do a normal multicast
or broadcast.

EXAM ALERT
Remember the defining characteristics of CDP are that it is a proprietary Layer 2 protocol that can run
regardless of the Layer 1 and Layer 3 configuration. It also is enabled by default and sent as a multicast to directly connected Cisco neighbors only.

NOTE
Cisco has expanded CDP’s utility to include providing auto-negotiation of power of ethernet for Cisco IP
phones and wireless access points. Additionally, CDP is used for sending routing network information
with on-demand routing (discussed in Appendix A, “Future Exam Topics”).

The amount of information you can display ultimately depends on the command you use. For
instance, the following example illustrates the output of the show cdp neighbors command:
CCNA2621>show cdp neighbors
Capability Codes: R - Router, T - Trans Bridge, B - Source Route Bridge
S - Switch, H - Host, I - IGMP, r - Repeater
Device ID
Local Intrfce
Holdtme
Capability Platform Port ID
Bldg1-3550
Fas 0/0
128
S I
WS-C3550-2Fas 0/22
Engineering1601 Ser 0/1
134
R
1601
Ser 0

Table 7.5 explains the output depicted in the preceding example.
TABLE 7.5

show cdp neighbors Output Explanation

Column Heading

Explanation

Device ID

Neighbor’s configured hostname.

Local Intrfce

Local interface in which you received this information.

Holdtme

CDP hold-down timer to keep track of how long it has been since you received information from that neighbor and how many seconds to wait until you consider that
neighbor dead.

Capability

The capabilities of the Cisco devices as explained in the legend at the top of the
output.

Platform

The model number of the Cisco device.

Port ID

The interface in which the neighbor device sent out this CDP information.

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 250

250

Chapter 7: Basic Cisco Configurations

By using the show cdp neighbors detail command or the show cdp entry * command,
you can gain even more information about your neighbor Cisco devices. Specifically, you can
see all the information from the show cdp neighbors output in addition to the Layer 3 information and the IOS version of your directly connected neighbors.
Based upon this information, you can already begin to see the topology layout of these three
devices, 
At this point, I am sure you are completely in awe of the wonders that CDP can bring to your
administrative duties; however, there are times you may wish to disable CDP. As mentioned
before, CDP is a Cisco proprietary protocol enabled by default on all Cisco devices. So what
happens when you are not connected to a Cisco device? Although the bandwidth usage is minimal, it still serves no purpose to continue sending CDP advertisements to non-Cisco devices
that cannot interpret this protocol. In addition, it is a good idea to disable CDP for security
reasons because you can gain so much useful information that could prove fatal in the wrong
hands.
You can disable CDP in one of two ways: globally on the Cisco device or on an interface-byinterface basis. To disable CDP for the entire device, you have to configure the no cdp run
command in Global Configuration. Otherwise, you can specify on which interfaces to disable
CDP advertisement by navigating to those specific interfaces and using the no cdp enable
command in the interface configuration.

EXAM ALERT
Keep in mind for the exam that the two commands to disable CDP are no cdp enable and no cdp
run.

Using Telnet for Virtual Terminal Access

At this point, you can configure the Engineering1601 router as if you were directly consoled
into it. However, there may be a time where you need to jump back to your original router to
incorporate additional configurations, verify connectivity, or Telnet into other devices. While
connected to the remote device, you can suspend your Telnet session temporarily and return
to the origin of the Telnet session (CCNA2621 in our example). The useful, but strangely awkward keystroke to suspend a Telnet session in Ctrl+Shift+6 followed by hitting the x key. Keep
in mind that this only suspends the Telnet session; the session is still connected and running
in a background process.

EXAM ALERT
Know that the keystroke combination Ctrl+Shift+6, x suspends a Telnet session.

As shown in Figure 7.9, you can verify the Telnet sessions that have originated from the local
device by using the show sessions command. This example initiates and suspends two separate Telnet sessions from the CCNA2621 router.


Notice that each session connection is numbered and there is an asterisk next to connection
2. This is the last Telnet session that was suspended and it is the session that will be resumed
if you hit the Enter key without typing a command. You can also choose which Telnet session
to resume by typing resume, followed by the connection number.
Ctrl+Shift+6, x suspends the Telnet session, but how do you actually close the Telnet session
when you are finished? The answer is twofold. You can close a Telnet session from the originating local device by typing the keyword disconnect followed by the connection number.
From the device into which you are Telnetted, you can also type exit or logout from User
EXEC or Privileged EXEC.

EXAM ALERT
Be familiar with the multiple ways you can resume and disconnect a Telnet session.


Chapter 7: Basic Cisco Configurations

Terminal Monitor
By default, your Cisco devices send their notification messages such as debug outputs, interface alerts, and system error messages to the console port. This means that you cannot see
these notifications over a Telnet session to another device by default.
To have these messages copied to the vty lines, you need to use the terminal monitor command in Privileged EXEC mode of the device to which you are telnetted. For instance, in the
configuration shown, Router A Telnets into Router B and enters Privileged EXEC mode to
type the terminal monitor command. debug outputs, notifications, and errors messages are
then sent over the vty lines to be viewed by the remote terminal.
RouterA>telnet 10.1.1.1
Trying 10.1.1.1 ... Open
User Access Verification
Password:
RouterB>enable
Password:
Router#terminal monitor

EXAM ALERT
The terminal monitor command copied debug outputs and error messages to the vty terminal
lines.

STEP BY STEP
7.2 Telnet Practice
1. Telnet into your neighbor router by typing telnet, followed by the IP address.
2. Suspend that Telnet session by using the Ctrl+Shift+6, x keystroke.
3. Verify that suspended Telnet session by typing show sessions.
4. Disconnect the Telnet session by typing disconnect, followed by the connection number (should
be 1).

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 255

255

Chapter Summary

Chapter Summary
This chapter dealt with a plethora of commands and their respective syntaxes and outputs. In
Global Configuration, you learned how to manipulate the startup process using either the
config-register or boot system commands. Additionally, you saw how to use the hostname
command to name your router or switch and how to create a message-of-the-day login banner with the banner motd command. To secure Privileged EXEC, you saw that the enable
password command displays the password in clear text; however, the enable secret command encrypts the password using a one-way MD5 hash and overrides the enable password
command if both are configured. For DNS-specific functions, you discovered that you can
create static DNS entries with the ip host command or specify DNS servers using the ip
name-server command.
In the line configuration for console, Telnet, and the aux port, you saw that you can configure
a layer of security by having administrators enter a password to get into User EXEC. This was
achieved by using the login and the password combo in the line configuration of each EXEC
line. Additionally, you saw the utility of the exec-timeout command for changing the default
timeout for an inactive EXEC session. Because these passwords are all in clear text, you can
encrypt them in Global Configuration, using the service password-encryption command.
The configuration of interfaces entails assigning an IP address to a physical interface in a
router and the VLAN 1 interface in a switch, using the ip address commands followed by
the no shutdown command to administratively enable the interface. For switch configuration,
you also learned the ip default-gateway command is used to define a gateway of last resort
for a switch for it to respond to remote management requests from other networks.
You know from this chapter that the copy command can be used to meet several objectives
such as saving the configuration, backing up and upgrading your IOS from a TFTP server, and
backing up and restoring your configurations. You learned that the syntax of the copy command is copy from a source to a destination. The keywords you can use to identify the source
and destination are startup-config, running-config, tftp, and flash.
To see your configurations, you now know that the show running-config command can show
you the active configuration in RAM, and that show startup-config displays the configuration booted from NVRAM that you saved with the copy running-config startup-config
command. For verification and viewing statistics of interfaces, you discovered that the show
interfaces or the show ip interface brief command show you that the interface statues
can be one of the following: up/line protocol up (active), up/line protocol down (Layer 2
down), down/line protocol down (Layer 1 down), administratively down/line protocol down
(interface requires no shutdown command). What’s more, the show controller serial command can show you whether the interface has the DTE or the DCE cable connected to it in
a lab environment with a cross-over serial cable.

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 256

256

Chapter 7: Basic Cisco Configurations

You can sleep better at night knowing now that your Cisco devices, by default, receive Layer
2 proprietary CDP multicast messages from directly connected Cisco devices that advertise
the hostname, local and remote interfaces, capabilities, device model, and its hold-down time.
You saw these statistics by using the show cdp neighbors command; however, you also saw
the IOS revision and the Layer 3 address of your neighbors by using the show cdp neighbors
detail or show cdp entry * command. Disabling this useful utility was demonstrated with
the no cdp run command in Global Configuration or no cdp enable in the interface configuration.
Finally, you learned in this chapter that you can Telnet into other devices from your Cisco
router or switch. You suspended the Telnet session by using the Ctrl+Shift+6, x keystroke and
verified that Telnet session by typing show sessions. Closing the Telnet session was achieved
by typing exit or logout while in the active Telnet session, or disconnect followed by the
connection number in the device where the Telnet originated.

7.1 Configuring a New Router
You are now onsite at the customer’s location and it is time to prove your configuration skills by setting
up their router with the following parameters. This exercise assumes you have a router that is not in production to utilize.
Estimated Time: 25 minutes.
1. In Global Configuration, assign the hostname, CstmrARtr, create an appropriate login banner, and
use the strongest encryption for access to Privileged EXEC with the password, giforgot.
2. In line configuration, secure Telnet and console access by using the password imnotsure.
3. For the LAN interface, assign the IP address of 172.16.31.17 /28 and enable the interface.
4. For the serial interface, assign the IP address of 192.168.1.17 /30 and enable the interface.
5. Verify the status of your interfaces by using the show interfaces and show ip int
brief.
6. Verify your active configuration and save it to NVRAM.
That configuration should look similar to the following 1601 configuration:
Current configuration:
!
version 12.0
service timestamps debug uptime
service timestamps log uptime
no service password-encryption
!
hostname CstmrARtr
!
enable secret 5 $1$PHvQ$Gouu3MIDqY9G5d9hq9tr7/
!
Chapter 7: Basic Cisco Configurations
ip subnet-zero
!
!
interface Ethernet0
description /28 is 255.255.255.240 in decimal notation
ip address 172.16.31.17 255.255.255.240
no ip directed-broadcast
!
interface Serial0
description /30 is 255.255.255.252 in decimal notation
ip address 192.168.1.17 255.255.255.252
no ip directed-broadcast
no fair-queue
!
ip classless
!
banner motd ^C This is a private system and may be accessed only by authorized users.
➥ Unauthorized access is strictly prohibited and will be enforced to the full
➥ extent of the law.^C
!
line con 0
exec-timeout 0 0
password imnotsure
login
transport input none
line vty 0 4
password imnotsure
login
!
end

7.2 Configuring a New Switch
The router is now all configured, and you notice that the switch is already plugged in and running. The
customer has requested that you make sure that the switch is secured with passwords and is able to
respond to Telnet sessions from their remote Network Operations Center.
Estimated Time: 15 minutes.
1. In Global Configuration, assign the hostname, CstmrASwtch, create an appropriate login banner,
and use the strongest encryption for access to Privileged EXEC, using the password, giforgot.
2. In line configuration, secure Telnet and the console User EXEC access by using the password
imnotsure.

NOTE
Catalyst switches may have more than the typical five vty lines you saw in router configurations.


Apply Your Knowledge
3. Assign a management IP address of 172.16.31.30 /28.
4. Set the default gateway to be the router’s ethernet address from Exercise 7.1.
5. Verify your active configuration and save it to NVRAM.
The configuration should look similar to the following Catalyst 3550 configuration:
Current configuration : 1819 bytes
!
version 12.1
no service pad
service timestamps debug uptime
service timestamps log uptime
no service password-encryption
!
hostname CstmrASwtch
!
enable secret 5 $1$ueGU$jTruyGB16bJKo9AIa8kkO/
!
ip subnet-zero
!
!
spanning-tree mode pvst
spanning-tree extend system-id
!
!
interface FastEthernet0/1
no ip address
!
interface FastEthernet0/2
no ip address
!
…Output ommitted…
!
interface GigabitEthernet0/1
no ip address
!
interface GigabitEthernet0/2
no ip address
!
interface Vlan1
ip address 172.16.31.30 255.255.255.240
!
ip default-gateway 172.16.31.17
ip classless
ip http server
!
!

10_0789735199_CH07.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 260

260

Chapter 7: Basic Cisco Configurations
banner motd ^C This is a private system and may be accessed only by authorized users.
➥ Unauthorized access is strictly prohibited and will be enforced to the full
➥ extent of the law.^C
!
line con 0
line vty 0 4
password imnotsure
login
line vty 5 15
password imnotsure
login
!
end

Introduction
You have already learned in Chapter 3, “Data Link Networking Concepts,” that you can use
bridges and switches to segment a LAN into smaller collision domains. This chapter looks in
close detail at the operations of bridges and switches. Specifically, you will investigate the
transparent functionality that occurs when a bridge or switch is building and utilizing its frame
forwarding logic, as well as the peculiar nature of Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) in redundant
switched networks.

Bridging and Switching Functionality
Objective:

Implement a LAN
Describe the principles and practice of switching in an ethernet network
Bridges and switches forward frames based upon the Layer 2 ethernet MAC addresses. Both
devices receive ethernet frames transmitted from other devices and dynamically build a MAC
address table based upon the source MAC address inside of those frames. This MAC address
table is commonly referred to as a Content Addressable Memory (CAM) table.
These dynamic entries in the CAM table are not permanent, however. After the switch or
bridge stops receiving frames from a certain MAC address (varies, but typically 5 minutes), the
entry is removed from the CAM table to save memory and processor resources. The exceptions to this are static MAC entries that have been manually configured on a port-by-port basis
for security and control purposes.
When deciding to which port to forward the ethernet frame, a bridge or switch consults this
CAM table and forwards the ethernet frame based upon the destination MAC address of the
ethernet header. In instances where the destination MAC address is not in the table, it copies
and forwards the frame out every port except the one at which it was received. This action is
commonly known as flooding.

EXAM ALERT
It is important to remember that switches and bridges build their MAC address tables using the source
address in an ethernet frame header. In addition, they base their forwarding decisions on the destination MAC address in an ethernet frame header.

Recall that bridges and switches segment LANs into collision domains; however, they still are in
a single broadcast domain. Switches and bridges do not have entries for broadcast addresses
(FFFF.FFFF.FFFF) or multicast addresses (0100.5E00.000-0100.5E7F.FFFF) in their CAM

11_0789735199_CH08.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 273

273

Frame Transmission Methods

tables. As previously mentioned, when a bridge or a switch receives a frame with a destination
MAC address not in its table, it floods that frame out every port.

EXAM ALERT
When a switch receives an ethernet frame with a broadcast, multicast, or unknown unicast (destination MAC address of ethernet frame not in CAM table), it will flood that frame out every port
except the one with which it was received.

For instance, consider the switched topology example illustrated in Figure 8.1. When
Computers A, B, C, and Printer D originally sent an ethernet frame, the switch recorded the
source MAC address of that frame and the associated port in its CAM table. If Computer A
sends an ethernet frame destined for Printer D’s MAC address of 1111.2222.3333, the switch
forwards only that frame out to its Fast Ethernet 0/14 interface. If Computer A sends a broadcast with a destination of FFFF.FFFF.FFFF, that entry does not exist in the CAM table, so that
frame is flooded out all interfaces except for Fast Ethernet 0/1.
Notice that Computers B and C are plugged into a hub. So what happens when Computer B
sends an ethernet frame to Computer C? The frame hits the Layer 1 hub, which regenerates
the signal out all ports (regardless of the MAC address because it is a Physical layer device).
When the frame reaches the switch, the switch realizes that the source and destination MAC
addresses reside on the same interface, so it does not send that frame on to any other ports.
This process is also known commonly as filtering.

Frame Transmission Methods
Switches are often classified based upon the method in which they process and forward frames
in and out of their interfaces. This classification differs depending on the device’s processing



Chapter 8: Bridging and Switching Operations

capabilities and manufacturer. The three transmission methods that a bridge or switch may use
are discussed in the following sections.

Store-and-Forward
Properly named, the store-and-forward method of frame transmission involves the switch or
bridge, which buffer (store temporarily in a small memory location) the entire ethernet frame
and perform a cyclic redundancy check (CRC) of that frame to make sure it is not a bad frame
such as a runt (frame that is below minimum frame size) or a giant (frame that is above maximum frame size). If the frame calculation detects a bad frame, it is dropped at that point. Thus,
the frame is forwarded only if the CRC calculation results in a normal frame.
Because the entire frame is checked, store-and-forward switching is said to be latency (delay)
varying. In other words, depending on the payload inside the frame, the switch takes varying
processing times to buffer the entire frame and perform the CRC before sending it to its destination. Although this method sounds like a lengthy process, this is the most widely used
method of switching in Cisco Catalyst switches because the hardware processors for the interfaces are so advanced and robust that the switch hardly works up a sweat.

Cut-Through
Cut-through transmissions are practically the antithesis of store-and-forward frame transmission. In fact, instead of processing the entire frame, cut-through switching entails the switch
or bridge buffering just enough information to know where to forward the frame before sending it on to another segment. In other words, it looks only up to the destination MAC address
in the ethernet header and sends it on regardless of whether the frame contains errors.
This “hot potato” method of frame transmission was once appealing for devices with low processing power. Because it has to inspect only the beginning of an ethernet frame header, latency is not a factor with this method. The downside to cut-through switching, however, is that
it still passes bad frames on to other segments because it does not perform CRC calculations
of any kind.

Fragment-Free
In a true Goldilocks fashion, if cut-through is too hot and store-and-forward is too cold, then
fragment-free may be just right for you. Fragment-free is a hybrid of the two transmission
methods because it buffers up to the first 64 bytes of a frame to ensure that it is not a runt
frame (most collisions occur within the first 64 bytes). This obviously is not as fast as cutthrough; nevertheless, it ensures that many of the invalid frames in the LAN are not transmitted on to other segments. Figure 8.2 illustrates how much of an ethernet frame is buffered
and processed with each of the three transmission methods discussed.

EXAM ALERT
Store-and-forward buffers the whole frame, does a CRC calculation, and is latency varying. Cutthrough buffers up to only the destination MAC address. Fragment-free buffers up to the first 64 bytes
before sending the frame on to another segment.

Half- and Full-Duplex Connections
Data communication on bridge and switch ports can occur in either half- or full-duplex
transmissions. Half-duplex connections are unidirectional in that data can be sent in one only
direction at one time. This is similar to the two-way radios or walkie-talkies in which only one
person can speak at one time. With half-duplex communication in an ethernet network,
CSMA/CD (carrier sense multiple access with collision detection) is enabled, which allots 5060% of the bandwidth on the link.
Full-duplex, on the other hand, is indicative of two-way communication in which devices can
send and receive information at the same time. With these connections, CSMA/CD is automatically disabled, allowing for 100% of the bandwidth in both directions. In fact, it uses the
two wires that typically are used for detecting collisions to simultaneously transmit and
receive. Because CSMA/CD is disabled, that means the connection has to be in an environment where collisions cannot occur. In other words, it must be connected to a switch or directly connected with a cross-over cable.

EXAM ALERT
If you are connected to a hub, the connection must be half-duplex with CSMA/CD. When running fullduplex, you must be connected to a switch.

NOTE
Because full-duplex allows 100% in both directions, it is sometimes advertised at twice the speed. For
instance, a 100Mbps interface might be marketed as achieving 200Mbps. Although it is advertised as
200Mbps, in reality, you are receiving 200Mbps of throughput.

11_0789735199_CH08.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 276

276

Chapter 8: Bridging and Switching Operations

Switches and Bridges Comparison
Because switches and bridges share so many commonalities, the question becomes, “What is
the difference between a bridge and a switch?” The most glaring difference is that ethernet
bridges are older devices that rely on software for forwarding frames. Catalyst switches have
frame-processing hardware chips called ASICs (Application-Specific Integrated Circuits) that
can forward frames exponentially faster than software can.
In addition, a multi-port bridge can support up to only 16 interfaces. Modern switches, on the
other hand, can have a port density of 10 times or more that of their older sibling. In fact, some
of the larger Catalyst chassis can hold blades and blades of switch ports that can support modern speeds (such as 10 gigabit ethernet) and forward millions of frames per second.
A bridge can also operate only in half-duplex mode, in which the interfaces forward frames
with the store-and-forward method. This was problematic with older bridges: You could
notice the delay in storing the entire frame and performing the CRC because this was all done
by slow software. Today, switches don’t share those concerns because their interfaces have
ASIC technology and can operate in half- or full-duplex.

Switching Design
You have already seen how switches operate when connected to end-user devices such as PCs,
printers, and servers. However, when switches are connected to other switches to form a
redundant network, a switching loop can occur. Figure 8.3 illustrates a scenario in which a
switching loop can occur.
In this design, redundant links interconnect the switches together. Although it is a good idea
to have redundancy in the network, the problem arises when a computer sends out a frame
with a broadcast, multicast, or unknown unicast destination MAC address. Recall that any of
these three transmissions causes a switch to copy and flood that frame out all ports except for
the one on which it came in. So if Computer A sends a broadcast, Switch A floods that out to
Switches B and D. Once again, if this is a broadcast message, Switches B and D flood that
frame out to Switch C. Staying true to its design, Switch C floods the frame back to Switches
B and D, and so on. Broadcasts continuously circle the switched network until ultimately the
amount of broadcast traffic consumes the switched network’s bandwidth and all traffic ceases
to flow. This unsettling scenario just described is called a broadcast storm and can be avoided
completely by using a Layer 2 protocol sent among switches called the Spanning Tree Protocol.

Spanning Tree Protocol
Objective:

Describe the Spanning Tree process
Once a proprietary protocol from DEC, Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) was standardized and
blessed by the IEEE specification, 802.1d. STP allows networks to maintain a level of redundancy while disabling the detrimental side effects that can occur such as broadcast storms.
Enabled by default on most switches, STP forms non-circular (no looping) paths throughout
the internetwork by performing an election and basing calculations on that election. These
calculations dictate which ports should remain in a non-forwarding (known as blocking) state to
eliminate redundant loops that can cause broadcast storms. STP also can react to changes in
the switched network to ensure that the redundant links may be used in the event of a topology change such as a link going down. The following sections exactly how this remarkable protocol operates behind the scenes in a LAN.

EXAM ALERT
Remember that STP is standardized by the IEEE 802.1d specification and is used to prevent switching
loops in a switched network.

Root Bridge
As previously mentioned, STP performs an election in the switched topology. The winner of
this election serves as the base of all calculations and ultimately becomes the root to the spanning tree. Conveniently, this elected bridge or switch is called the root bridge. From the root

11_0789735199_CH08.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 278

278

Chapter 8: Bridging and Switching Operations

bridge, non-circular branches extend throughout the switched network like those of a tree—a
spanning tree.

NOTE
Don’t let the term “root bridge” confuse you. When the 802.1d specification was drafted for STP, it was
referred to as a “root bridge” because bridges were the prominent devices at the time. In modern times, it
can just as easily be a switch.

So how does this election take place? You can rule out electoral votes because each bridge or
switch believes itself to be the root bridge at startup. The deciding factor on who becomes the
root bridge is something referred to as the Bridge ID. The Bridge ID comprises two components:
. Priority—This is an arbitrary number from 0–61440, which can be administratively set

in increments of 4096. The default value for priority is 32768, or 8000 in hex.
. MAC Address—The 48-bit MAC address of the switch itself.

The device with the lowest Bridge ID becomes the root bridge. If a new switch or bridge is
added with a lower Bridge ID to the switched network, a new election takes place and that
switch ultimately becomes the new root bridge for the switched network.
Consider the example displayed in Figure 8.4. Notice that all switches have their default priority value of 32768 in their Bridge IDs. Thus, the lowest MAC address ultimately dictates
who will win the election. Because Switch A has the lowest MAC address in the switched network, it will be the root bridge.


EXAM ALERT
Be prepared to be able to determine which switch is the root bridge, given a topology diagram of a
switched LAN.



Spanning Tree Protocol

Because this election process occurs automatically with bridges and switches, it is highly
advised that you change your priority in a robust and reliable switch in your internetwork as
opposed to letting this election occur by chance. This is especially true because manufacturers
choose the MAC address, and a lower MAC address could very well mean an old or low-end
switch or bridge, which might not be the best choice for your root bridge. How to manually
set the priority is discussed later in this chapter.
These Bridge IDs are advertised to each other through Bridge Protocol Data Units (BPDUs).
These messages are sent as multicasts every 2 seconds out a switch’s interfaces to other switches on adjoining segments. In addition, these messages also contain the Bridge ID of the root
bridge in every update that is sent. As long as you are receiving BPDUs that contain a higher
Bridge ID than your Bridge ID, you will remain the root bridge (because all devices assume
they are the root at startup).

Root Ports
In addition to the local Bridge ID and the root Bridge ID, BPDUs contain information that
helps switches perform calculations to decide which ports should be forwarding and which
should be blocking to create a loop-free switched network. The key to this calculation lies
within the cumulative cost back to the root bridge. Although it sounds as if these Cisco switches are keeping track of how much you paid for them, this is not what is meant when you use
the term “cost.” The cost is actually an inverse of the bandwidth for each link segment.
Because it is the inverse, the lower the cumulative cost back to the root bridge, the faster the
path is. Table 8.1 lists the standard costs used today in switches. It is possible to change these
values administratively if you want to control which link becomes the best path to the root
bridge.
TABLE 8.1

Port Cost Values

Interface

Cost

10Gbps

2

1Gbps

4

100Mbps

19

10Mbps

100

After the root bridge is determined, each non-root switch or bridge forms an association back
to the root bridge based upon the lowest cumulative path cost back to the root. Whichever
interface has the fastest route to the root bridge automatically becomes a forwarding port
called the root port.

11_0789735199_CH08.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 280

280

Chapter 8: Bridging and Switching Operations

NOTE
The root port is determined for the entire switch. Thus, each switch should contain only one root port back
to the root bridge.

The root bridge advertises a root path cost of 0 to Switches B and D. As the BPDU enters their
interfaces, they add the cost value of that interface and advertise that to any adjacent switches
on other segments. Every non-root bridge determines its fastest path back to the root by looking at these BPDUs that it receives from other switches. For instance, Switch B knows that
going out of the top segment back to the root has a cost of 4, and going through Switch C has
a cost of 42. Because the top segment has the lowest cumulative cost, that becomes the root
port for Switch B.
What would happen if there were a tie in the root path cost? For instance, Switch C has two
equal cost paths of 23 back to the root bridge through Switch B and Switch D. In the event of
a tie, the following are calculated in order to determine the root port:
1. The port with a switch advertising the lowest Bridge ID.
2. If the same Bridge ID (parallel links to the same switch), then the lowest port priority

is used. The port priority is an arbitrary number assigned to an interface that can be
administratively set to choose one link over another. The default value is 128.
3. If the same port priority, the ultimate tiebreaker is the lowest interface number, for

example, Fast Ethernet 0/1 over Fast Ethernet 0/6, because the links are identical.

Blocked Ports
To this point, the discussion has focused on how to determine which ports will be forwarding
traffic in a switched network. Yet to be addressed is the original point of STP, which is to
remove any potential switching loops. To remove potential switching loops, switches and
bridges keep any port that is not a root or designated port in a blocked state. Keep in mind:
A blocked state is not disabled (shut down); the interface is just not participating in forwarding any data. Blocked interfaces still received BPDUs from other switches to react to any
changes in the topology.

EXAM ALERT
Keep in mind for the exam that a blocked interface will still receive BPDUs from other switches.


Chapter 8: Bridging and Switching Operations


You now know how STP removes switching loops in your switched LAN by electing a root
bridge and calculating which ports should forward based upon the lowest root path cost.
However, as explained earlier, STP must be able to react to topology changes, such as a segment or switch going down, to ensure the redundant design is put to good use. When this type
of change occurs, ports that were once in a blocking state could quite possibly transition to a
forwarding state.
If devices were to immediately transition from a blocking state to a forwarding state, they
could easily cause loops in the network because the topology change did not have a chance to
propagate throughout the entire switched network. To remedy this dilemma, STP transitions
into two intermediate states before moving to a forwarding role. In these transitionary states,
the switch ensures that enough time has transpired to propagate the changes, and it undergoes a pre-forwarding routine to ensure that it will know where to forward the data when the
interface is forwarding. Table 8.2 displays, in order, the possible STP states, their functions,
and the time it takes to transition out of each state.

11_0789735199_CH08.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 284

284

Chapter 8: Bridging and Switching Operations

TABLE 8.2

STP Port States

State

Function

Transition Time

Disabled

Interface is administratively shut down or inoperative as a result of a
security violation.

NA

Blocking

Does not forward any user data. All ports start out in this state. Does not
send, but still can receive BPDUs to react to topology changes.

0–20 seconds

Listening

Begins to transition to a forwarding state by listening and sending BPDUs.
No user data sent.

15 seconds

Learning

Begins to build MAC addresses learned on the interface. No user data sent.

15 seconds

Forwarding

User data forwarded.

It may initially take the switch 20 seconds to start the transition process to the listening stage
because that is the default time limit that STP uses to consider a neighbor switch to be down.
In other words, if a switch stops hearing 10 BPDUs (equal to 20 seconds) from an adjoining
switch or bridge, it considers that device to be dead and must react to the new topology. This
20-second timer is known as the max age timer.
The listening and learning states wait 15 seconds each by default, but can be administratively
changed if you have a relatively small switched network. These 15-second intervals are commonly referred to as forward delays because they delay the transition to a forwarding state. It is
important to consider that it could take up to 50 seconds for an interface to transition to a forwarding state when the topology changes. Consequently, no data will be transferred in those
50 seconds—which in the networking world is about 10 phone calls of complaining endusers.

EXAM ALERT
A STP topology change could take up to 50 seconds.

The max age and forward delay timers are based upon a default network diameter of seven
switches including the root bridge. Diameter (in switching terms) refers to the number of
bridge or switches between any two hosts. If your network is, for instance, only a diameter of
2, you can decrease these timers because it doesn’t take as long to propagate a change in the
topology. Another benefit of STP is that these timers are ultimately dictated by the root
bridge. Thus, to change the timers, you have to configure the change on only the root bridge
and it will get propagated to the other switches. This change could possibly backfire and cause
switching loops in instances when you add more switches to the network and forget to change
the timers. The next section discusses some safer alternatives to speed up the convergence
time of STP when a topology change occurs.

11_0789735199_CH08.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 285

285

Enhancements to Spanning Tree Protocol

Enhancements to Spanning Tree Protocol
The steps to transition to a forwarding state in STP are critical to ensure that the switched network has enough time to propagate a change in the topology. However, in the networking
world, 50 seconds is a lot of down time. In some instances, these 50 seconds may be detrimental because of the disruption of data traffic and should be avoided if it is safe to do so. In
light of these scenarios, Cisco has created some enhancements to normal STP operation that
can decrease the time it takes for the switched network to converge (have a consistent perspective of network), which is discussed in the next sections.

PortFast and BPDU Guard
Imagine you just plugged in your DHCP or Cisco CallManger VoIP server into your switch.
Because STP is running on all ports on the Catalyst switches by default, the interface into
which you plug your server transitions from a blocking state to the listening, followed by the
learning, and finally forwarding. In those 30 seconds, devices such as IP phones and computers cannot use those services that the server provides because no data transfer can occur until
spanning tree is in a forwarding state.
To speed up the spanning tree process for end devices such as servers, you can configure your
first STP enhancement, called PortFast. If you configure this feature on an interface, it skips
the listening and learning stages and transitions immediately to a forwarding state to enable
instant data transfer.
If you enable PortFast on an interface, it is imperative that you never plug a switch or a hub
into it. This could easily cause a loop in your switched network. In fact, Cisco has added a
function to PortFast called BPDU Guard that acts as a loop-preventive detector for BPDUs
on a PortFast-enabled interface. When a BPDU is received on a PortFast-configured interface with BPDU Guard enabled, the port is disabled automatically and must be enabled by an
administrator to ensure that a switching loop will not occur.

EXAM ALERT
PortFast will immediately transition from a blocking to a forwarding state on ports connected to enddevices. BPDU Guard is a feature that disables the PortFast-enabled interface if a BPDU is received
on that port.

UplinkFast
In an optimal redundant switching design, you would have redundant high-end distribution
layer switches in your network, with your access layer switch having an uplink to both as
depicted in Figure 8.10. With this design, if your root port were to fail, it would still take at
least 30 seconds to transition the backup link to a forwarding state. With a feature called

11_0789735199_CH08.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 286

286

Chapter 8: Bridging and Switching Operations

UplinkFast, you can bypass the listening and learning state for this redundant uplink to ensure
faster recovery.

NOTE
For UplinkFast to work, the access later switch must have direct knowledge of link failure (a link that is
connected to the switch), it must have one port in a blocking state, and the link failure must be on the root
port.

Root Bridge
R

Distribution Layer

D

D

D

Access Layer
B

R

FIGURE 8.10

UplinkFast switching design scenario.

BackboneFast
BackboneFast is similar to UplinkFast, in which a redundant link transitions faster than normal to a forwarding state. The difference is that the transition occurs without having direct
knowledge of the link failure. Consider the scenario displayed in Figure 8.11. In this scenario,
the failure actually occurs on the link between the two distribution layer switches. When that
link fails, the distribution switch on the left begins to have delusions of grandeur and believe
it is the root bridge, and it advertises that to the access layer switch. Because this access switch
still has connectivity to the actual root bridge, it disregards the left distribution switch’s false
BPDUs (referred to as inferior BPDUs). By design, it must wait the max age (20 seconds) before
transitioning to a learning state on its backup link and send a BPDU to the distribution switch
informing it of access to the actual root bridge.
Root Bridge
R

Distribution Layer

D

D

D

Access Layer
B

R

Must wait
max age
time…

FIGURE 8.11

BackboneFast switching design scenario.

11_0789735199_CH08.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 287

287

Enhancements to Spanning Tree Protocol

With BackboneFast, the access layer switch bypasses the max age time and immediately transitions from blocking to listening. After the distribution switch receives that BPDU from the
access layer switch, it realizes it has a path to the root bridge through the access layer switch,
and that corresponding interface becomes its root port.

Configuring and Verifying MAC Addresses
The default state of Cisco Catalyst switches is to learn MAC addresses dynamically. For security purposes, you have the capability to assign static MAC addresses to an interface to ensure
that a MAC address is recognized on only a specific interface. For instance, if you want to
make sure that no one tries to connect to your switch and spoof (falsely configure) your server’s MAC address of FA23.239B.2349, you could use the following command to statically
assign that MAC to the Fast Ethernet 0/2 interface:
Switch(config)#mac-address-table static FA23.239B.2349 vlan 1 interface
➥FastEthernet 0/2

To verify your static and dynamically learned MAC addresses stored in the CAM table of the
switch, use the show mac-address-table command as demonstrated here:
Switch#show mac-address-table
Mac Address Table
------------------------------------------Vlan
Mac Address
Type
Ports
------------------------…Output Omitted…
1
0000.399e.0789
DYNAMIC
Fa0/3
1
000d.65d0.4e18
DYNAMIC
Fa0/1
3
FA23.239B.2349
STATIC
Fa0/2
Total Mac Addresses for this criterion: 50

Port Security
Anybody that has physical access to the ports of your switches can easily attach another switch
or hub to enable more devices to be on the switched network. If you want to limit the number
of MAC addresses that can be dynamically learned on a switch port (for environments such as
college campuses and hotels), you can enable the port security feature on your switch ports that
are accessible to end-users. With the switchport port-security commands, you can define
the maximum number of MAC addresses to be learned on an access port. If this maximum
number is exceeded, the switchport can be put in a disabled state in which you have to reenable the interface. Although a bit drastic, it is a sure fire way to ensure switch administrators
are aware where the violation occurred and help identify the users who might be responsible.

11_0789735199_CH08.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 288

288

Chapter 8: Bridging and Switching Operations

To configure port security, you must enable this function on each interface, followed by the
maximum MAC count allowed on the interface. For example, if you wanted to restrict the
number of MAC addresses allowed to one MAC addresses, you would use the following configuration on the port:
Switch(config-if)#switchport port-security
Switch(config-if)#switchport port-security maximum 1

Furthermore, the switch can disable the switchport when a violation occurs by entering the
following command:
Switch(config-if)#switchport port-security violation shutdown

EXAM ALERT
The switchport port-security maximum command restricts the number of MAC
addresses that can be learned on a switch interface. The switchport port-security
violation shutdown instructs the switch to disable the port when a violation occurs.

Configuring and Verifying Spanning Tree
Protocol
Objective:

Customize a switch configuration to meet specified network requirements
STP is enabled by default on all Cisco Catalyst switches. In fact, if you are running multiple
VLANs on your switch (discussed in Chapter 9, “Virtual LANs”), Cisco switches run an
instance of STP on each VLAN configured. With that being said, no configuration is required
unless you want to alter the default parameters of STP or you want to utilize some of the
Cisco enhancements such as PortFast, UplinkFast, or BackboneFast.

Changing Priority and Port Cost
One of the common configurations you might encounter in your travels is to change the
default priority of a switch to ensure that it will win the election for root bridge. To configure
this option, you have to define which VLAN’s priority you want to change and give a value in
increments of 4096. For instance, if you wanted your switch to be the root bridge for VLAN
1, you would configure the following in Global Configuration:
Switch(config)#spanning-tree vlan 1 priority 4096

11_0789735199_CH08.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 289

289

Configuring and Verifying Spanning Tree Protocol

Cisco also created a command that automatically changes the switches priority to become the
root bridge for a given VLAN:
Switch(config)#spanning-tree vlan 4 root primary

If you wanted to change the default cost calculations for a specific interface to ensure that a
port becomes a forwarding interface, you can change the spanning tree cost on any interface
by entering the interface configuration mode and using the following command:
Switch(config)#interface FastEthernet 0/1
Switch(config-if)#spanning-tree cost 1

Configuring Cisco STP Enhancements
To enable the Cisco enhancements on a Catalyst switch, you can configure PortFast with
BPDU Guard on an interface-by-interface basis; conversely, UplinkFast and BackboneFast are
configured globally on the switch as demonstrated in the following configuration:
Switch(config)#interface FastEthernet 0/3
Switch(config-if)#spanning-tree portfast bpduguard
%Warning: portfast should only be enabled on ports connected to a single
host. Connecting hubs, concentrators, switches, bridges, etc... to this
interface when portfast is enabled, can cause temporary bridging loops.
Use with CAUTION
Switch(config-if)#exit
Switch(config)#spanning-tree uplinkfast
Switch(config)#spanning-tree backbonefast

Verifying Spanning Tree Protocol
To verify spanning tree operation in your switch, you can issue the show spanning-tree command to see a display of the STP operations for each VLAN. If you want to see specific information regarding a particular VLAN or interface, you can also add additional keywords after
the command to see the output for only those items. For example, Figure 8.12 illustrates the
output of the STP statistics for VLAN 1.

FIGURE 8.12

show spanning-tree output.

11_0789735199_CH08.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 290

290

Chapter 8: Bridging and Switching Operations

Notice in this output that you can see the MAC address and the priority of the root bridge
and the local switch (which happens to be the root bridge for this VLAN). In addition, you
can see the timers using in 802.1d for port state transitions including the max age and forward
delay. Finally, this useful show command displays the interfaces that are active and participating in STP and their associated role and state in the spanning tree network.

11_0789735199_CH08.qxd

11/30/05

12:23 PM

Page 291

291

Chapter Summary

Chapter Summary
This chapter explored the mysteries behind ethernet bridging and switching. Namely, it
showed how bridges and switches build their MAC address table (also known as a CAM table),
using the source MAC address of ethernet frames, and forward, filter, or flood those frames
based upon the destination MAC. The method in which it forwards the frames differs from
switch to switch. Specifically, the switch might use the latency varying store-and-forward
transmission method, which buffers the entire frame and calculates the CRC before forwarding the frame. Cut-through switching looks at only the destination MAC address in an ethernet frame, whereas fragment-free looks at up to the first 64 bytes, in which most collisions
occur.
Switch connections can communicate in half-duplex or full-duplex, depending on the device
to which they are connected. For instance, half-duplex connections are unidirectional and
must be used when connecting to a hub because collisions must be detected. Full-duplex
allows bidirectional communications to occur on the link is used when you are connecting to
other switches or directly to devices that support it. With full-duplex connections, CSMA/CD
is disabled so the devices can send and receive at the same time.
When multiple switches are connected in a redundant design, STP (IEEE 802.1d) removes
the possibility of switching loops, which can cause broadcast storms. It achieves this by electing a root bridge based upon the lowest Bridge ID (priority + MAC) being advertised in
BPDUs. After the root bridge is elected, every non-root bridge forms an association to the
root bridge by determining the port with the best path (lowest cumulative cost), which
becomes the root port. For every segment, a designated port is also elected based upon the
fastest route back to the root bridge. In the event of a tie, the Bridge ID is used, followed by
the lowest port priority, and finally the lowest port ID.
STP ports start in a blocking state in which no data or BPDUs are being sent. If the port is
capable of forwarding frames, it transitions to a listening state for 15 seconds (forward delay),
where it begins to exchange BPDUs. The learning stage follows for another 15 seconds to
learn the MAC address on the interface, then finally transitions to a forwarding state.
Cisco created some means to speed up these STP transitions that can be configured on
Catalyst switches. PortFast allows the switch port to go immediately to a forwarding state for
end devices such as servers. To protect these interfaces from forming a switching loop (by
accidentally connecting a hub or switch to the PortFast interface), Cisco created BPDU
Guard that disables the interface if a BPDU is received on the interface. UplinkFast also skips
the listening and learning transitions when a direct failure occurs on a switch with redundant
uplinks to its distribution switch. BackboneFast speeds up convergence by skipping the max
age time when switches learn of a failure indirectly.

12_0789735199_CH09.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 304

304

Chapter 9: Virtual LANs

Introduction
One of the underlying problems with Layer 2 switches is that excessive broadcast and multicast traffic can affect other devices in a switched network because bridges and switches flood
these types of messages. If you are a receiver of all this excessive traffic, you have to waste
processing utilization and endure wasted bandwidth even if those devices are not in your
department. This chapter explores how VLANs solve your broadcast concerns by segmenting
broadcast domains at Layer 2 and how they affect your switched network design.

Overview of VLANs
In your company, you may have several departments connected to the same Layer 2 switch or
switched network. Quite often, departments may be running applications and protocols that
are unique to users within their own group. Unfortunately, if this traffic consists of multicasts
and broadcasts (or unknown unicasts, for that matter), that traffic hits all users connected to
that switched network.
For instance, imagine that the Not-So-Human Resources department is running a developed
program that helps them track employee lunch break times. Unfortunately, this traffic relies
heavily on broadcasts to communicate with other applications being used by personnel in that
department. The broadcast and multicast traffic from the Not-So-Human Resources department continues to be flooded out to everyone else in the network because they are all
connected to the same switched network. Because this is the only department that uses this
software, ideally it would be convenient to separate the Not-So-Human Resources group into
their own separate switched LAN so their traffic doesn’t affect any other department.
To this point, the only way you could segment this network into smaller broadcast domains is
by using a router because routers do not forward broadcasts or multicasts by default. The
problem with this solution is that routers can be expensive, considering you need an interface
for each department to keep the traffic separate. In addition, because routers have to process
all the way into the Layer 3 information of a packet before sending the traffic to a different
segment, throughput is considerably slower than that of a switch. Not to mention, if you have
users within departments physically dispersed all throughout your network, the broadcast and
multicast traffic would never reach them because the router does not forward them onto other
interfaces.
The answer to all these problems lies within the magic of virtual LANs (VLANs). VLANs
enable you to segment broadcast domains at Layer 2 without a router. Each VLAN created in
a switch represents a logical grouping of devices into their own broadcast domain. Thus, each
department can have its own VLAN that separates traffic from one department from that of
other departments. In fact, devices in one VLAN cannot communicate with other devices in
another VLAN, even if those devices are plugged into the same switch. What’s more, VLANs

12_0789735199_CH09.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 305

305

Overview of VLANs

can span multiple switches, so the geographic location of the devices is no longer a limiting
factor. As members of a specific department are added or moved, you simply need to assign
their switch interface to the department’s VLAN.
What is also remarkable about VLANs is that because each VLAN represents a broadcast
domain in which devices can communicate only with other devices in that same VLAN, there
must be a separate instance of Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) running for each VLAN. In
other words, if you have 20 VLANs running in your switched network, you will have 20
instances of STP running, each with its own root bridge. It is for this very reason that the configuration for the STP priority (discussed in Chapter 8, “Bridging and Switching Operations”)
required that the VLAN be specified in the command syntax.

EXAM ALERT
Unless VLANs are specifically mentioned in an exam question or answer choices, routers segment
broadcast domains and switches segment collision domains.

VLAN Membership Methods
After the VLANs are created, they have to be associated with the users or departments connected to the switches. The most common way to associate VLANs is statically on a port-byport basis. When the VLAN is associated with the switch port, it is referred to as an access port.
When a single VLAN is assigned on the interface, traffic is sent to and received by only
devices connected to interfaces with the same VLAN.
For instance, consider the typical single-switch VLAN configuration exhibited in Figure 9.1.
All these switches are access ports that have a single VLAN assigned to them. On Fast
Ethernet interfaces 0/1 and 0/3, they are assigned to VLAN 1. Our Not-So-Human
Resources VLAN (VLAN 3) has been assigned to Fast Ethernet interfaces 0/2, 0/4, and 0/5.
The devices connected to these interfaces can communicate only with other interfaces that
also contain that VLAN. So in the example, the printer and the computer on the right can
communicate with each other and the computer connected to interface Fast Ethernet 0/2.
Even though they are connected to the same switch, these devices cannot communicate with
the computers connected to interfaces assigned to VLAN 1 because they are in a completely
different broadcast domain.
An alternative to static VLANs is to have the VLANs dynamically associated with the frames
entering a switch. To achieve this, you must configure a VLAN Membership Policy Server
(VMPS). The VMPS is a device, such as a server or even a high-end Catalyst switch, that has
an association of every MAC address with a VLAN. When the frame enters a port, the switch
acts as a client and queries the VMPS for the VLAN assigned to that MAC. This is appealing
because you don’t have to configure VLANs on every interface; however, it does require a
good deal of initial setup on the actual server.

12_0789735199_CH09.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 306

306

Chapter 9: Virtual LANs

VLAN 3

VLAN 1
F0/1
F0/2

F0/5
F0/3

Not-So-Human
Resources

F0/4

VLAN 3
VLAN 1

FIGURE 9.1

Single-switch VLAN

scenario.

The Management VLAN
Conveniently enough, your switch is already configured with a default VLAN that is used for
management on access ports. This is used for a management communication channel because
the IP address, CDP, and VTP (discussed later in this chapter) all exist in the management
VLAN for ethernet, VLAN 1. This VLAN is created by default in all Cisco Catalyst switches
and assigned to all interfaces. Because it is applied to all switch ports, it still holds true that all
devices connected to a switch are in the same broadcast domain.
Recall from Chapter 7, “Basic Cisco Configurations,” that to assign a management IP address
to a switch, you configure the IP on interface VLAN 1. This means that your management
workstation must have access to VLAN 1 to remotely manage the Catalyst switch. If you
change the VLAN on the port in which your management station or your router (if managing
it remotely) is connected, you lose the ability to manage the switch with Telnet, SSH, HTTP,
or SNMP.

Configuring and Verifying VLANs
Objective:
Configure a switch with VLANS and inter-switch communication
Perform LAN and VLAN troubleshooting
Customize a switch configuration to meet specified network requirements
All interfaces are already assigned to VLAN 1. To create smaller broadcast domains in your
switch, you must create those VLANs for each department you want to segment and assign

12_0789735199_CH09.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 307

307

Configuring and Verifying VLANs

them to their respective interfaces. Specifically, the configuration steps for VLANs are as follows:
1. Create the VLAN, using a number between 2 and 1001.
2. Name the VLAN. If you do not assign it a name, it uses VLANxxxx, where xxxx is the

VLAN number.
3. Assign it to a switch port.

EXAM ALERT
Know the three steps involved in configuring VLANs.

VLAN-specific configurations are permanently stored in NVRAM in a special file called the
VLAN database. To configure VLAN information, you must enter a special configuration
mode that interacts directly with the VLAN database. Because this is a special configuration
location, any configurations in the VLAN database are not displayed in the startup-config or
the running-config. In addition, unlike configurations in the running-config, VLAN database
configurations are not applied until you exit the VLAN database configuration mode or type
the apply command.
From Privileged EXEC, you enter the VLAN database by typing the vlan database command. The prompt changes to signify that you have entered the VLAN database as shown in
the following output:
Switch#vlan database
Switch(vlan)#

Here, you can create all the VLANs that you want to create for your switched network by
using the vlan command as illustrated here:
Switch(vlan)#vlan 3 name NSHR
VLAN 3 added:
Name: NSHR
Switch(vlan)#vlan 4
VLAN 4 added:
Name: VLAN0004
Switch(vlan)#exit
APPLY completed.
Switch#

Notice in the second VLAN entry that a specific name is not assigned to VLAN 4. Because
there is no name for this VLAN, the Cisco IOS automatically assigns the name VLAN0004.
If you need to change a specific VLAN configuration, you just need to re-type the command

12_0789735199_CH09.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 308

308

Chapter 9: Virtual LANs

and it overwrites the previous command. After the VLAN configurations are completed, they
are applied as soon as you exit the VLAN database configuration mode back to Privileged
EXEC.
A VLAN is useful only if it is assigned to an interface. To statically assign the VLANs to a
switch port, you must navigate to the interface and use the switchport access vlan command as demonstrated here:
Switch(config)#interface FastEthernet 0/2
Switch(config-if)#switchport access vlan 3
Switch(config-if)#exit
Switch(config)#interface FastEthernet 0/7
Switch(config-if)#switchport access vlan 4

EXAM ALERT
Be prepared to configure VLANs in the VLAN database and assign them to an interface.

To verify your VLAN configuration, use the show vlan command to observe the VLANs that
you created and the interfaces to which they are applied, as demonstrated in Figure 9.2.

FIGURE 9.2

show vlan

output.

Alternate VLAN Configuration Method
The VLAN database is the most prominent means of configuring VLANs in the switch; however, it is possible to configure VLANs from global configuration as well. To navigate to this configuration mode, you
type the command vlan followed by the VLAN number you want to create. At this point, the prompt
changes to Switch(config-vlan)#, signifying that you are in the VLAN configuration mode. As
before, these VLAN configurations are stored in the VLAN database and are not displayed in the running
or startup configs.

12_0789735199_CH09.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 309

309

VLAN Trunking
Here is a similar VLAN configuration mode output as used in the VLAN database configuration earlier in
this section:
Switch#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line.
Switch(config)#vlan 3
Switch(config-vlan)#name NSHR
Switch(config-vlan)#exit
Switch(config)#vlan 4
Switch(config-vlan)#exit
Switch(config)#

End with CNTL/Z.

VLAN Trunking
One of the most remarkable features of VLANs is that they can span multiple interconnected
switches. VLAN traffic is carried from switch to switch over interfaces called trunks. These
trunk links must be at least 100Mbps because the traffic must carry all the VLAN traffic from
the access ports.
Just as access ports have a single VLAN assigned to them, trunk ports essentially have all
VLANs assigned to them. As frames traverse a trunk link, the VLAN identifier is added to the
ethernet frame. The receiving switch uses the VLAN identifier and sends the frames out only
the access ports that have that VLAN assigned to them. As the frame is sent out the interface,
the VLAN identifier is removed, which gives the illusion to the end devices that the entire
process is transparent.

EXAM ALERT
Remember that a trunk carries traffic for all the VLANs that are present on the switch by default.

NOTE
All VLAN traffic traverses a trunk link by default; however, it is possible to configure a trunk link to allow
only traffic from certain VLANs.

Similar to VLANs in a single switch, traffic is contained to only those devices that are members of the same VLAN. For example, Figure 9.3 displays a typical scenario in which VLANs
span multiple switches over a trunk link. Tagged frames from VLANs 1 and 3 are multiplexed
(multiple messages combined over a single channel) over the trunk between the switches.
However, traffic from VLAN 3 goes out to only those access interfaces that have VLAN 3
assigned to them; likewise, traffic from VLAN 1 is passed out only to the ports with
VLAN 1 assigned.

12_0789735199_CH09.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 310

310

Chapter 9: Virtual LANs

F0/3
F0/24

VLAN 1

VLAN 3

F0/24

VLAN 1

F0/1
F0/2

VLAN 3
F0/5

F0/3

Not-So-Human
Resources

F0/4

VLAN 3
VLAN 1

FIGURE 9.3

Multiple-switch VLAN

scenario.

EXAM ALERT
Be prepared to identify which devices can communicate with each other given a VLAN configuration in
one or several switches.

ISL Trunks
The VLAN identification is added to Layer 2 ethernet frames differently, depending on the
type of trunk that is configured. Cisco’s proprietary method of adding VLAN IDs to an ethernet frame is called Inter Switch Link (ISL). ISL trunking entails the original ethernet frame
being encapsulated by ASIC chips with the VLAN information. The ISL encapsulation has a
26-byte header and an additional 4-byte CRC trailer at the end. Because an additional 30 bytes
are added to the ethernet frame, the size of the frame can exceed a typical ethernet frame size
of 1518 bytes. If the interface isn’t configured as an ISL trunk, it drops the giant frame because
it violates the MTU limit of a typical ethernet frame. For this reason, ISL requires a direct
point-to-point (no intermediate devices) trunk connection between the switches.

EXAM ALERT
Remember that ISL links encapsulate the ethernet frame with a 26-byte header and a 4-byte CRC,
which causes a frame to exceed a standard ethernet MTU.

12_0789735199_CH09.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 311

311

Configuring and Verifying ISL and 802.1Q Trunks

802.1q Trunks
The IEEE created its own standard VLAN tagging method standardized as 802.1q. 802.1q differs from ISL because the VLAN ID is not encapsulated, but actually inserted in the originally ethernet frame. The VLAN identifier is contained within the four extra bytes inserted in the
ethernet frame after the source address. Because the original frame size is manipulated when
these four bytes are added to the frame, a new CRC must be calculated for the original ethernet Frame Check Sequence (FCS) field. Because only four bytes are added to the ethernet
frame, these frames are known as baby giant frames and may be passed by other intermediary
Layer 2 devices that are not configured as a trunk.

Native VLANs
Another unique feature of 802.1q trunks is the concept of a native VLAN. Traffic originating
from access ports that shares the same VLAN as the trunk’s native VLAN goes untagged over
the trunk link. Similarly, any untagged frame that is received on an 802.1q trunk port is considered destined for the native VLAN assigned to the trunk port. For this reason, it is imperative that each side of the IEEE 802.1q link be configured with the same native VLAN, or the
traffic from one VLAN leaks into another VLAN as illustrated in Figure 9.4. By default, the
native VLAN for trunk ports is the same as the management VLAN, VLAN 1.
Native
VLAN 1

Native
VLAN 3
VLAN 3

VLAN 1

VLAN 1

FIGURE 9.4

Native VLAN leakage.

Configuring and Verifying ISL and 802.1Q
Trunks
Objective:
Configure a switch with VLANS and inter-switch communication
Perform LAN and VLAN troubleshooting
Customize a switch configuration to meet specified network requirements
The first step to configuring a trunk link is deciding which type of trunk you want to use. For
instance, if you are connecting to a non-Cisco switch, you have to use a standard trunk VLAN

12_0789735199_CH09.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 312

312

Chapter 9: Virtual LANs

tagging method such as IEEE 802.1q. In addition, certain models of Cisco switches (such as
the Catalyst 2950) support only 802.1q trunking, so make sure you research the capabilities of
your switch model before configuring the interfaces.
To configure a trunk port, navigate to the interface that is connected to the other switch. On
models that support ISL and 802.1q trunking, you must first specify which VLAN tagging you
want to use with the switchport trunk encapsulation command, as shown here:
Switch(config)#interface FastEthernet 0/24
Switch(config-if)#switchport trunk encapsulation dot1q

Notice the syntax starts with switchport trunk instead of switchport access (from the
VLAN configurations) because this interface is being configured as a trunk to carry all
VLANs.
With the trunk encapsulation configured, you are ready to enable the interface to begin forwarding all VLAN traffic. The port, however, is still operating as an access port until you
specifically configure the interface to switch to trunking mode. To set this interface into a permanent trunking state, you must also type the following command:
Switch(config-if)#switchport mode trunk

EXAM ALERT
Be prepared to configure an interface as a trunk port.

Dynamic Trunking with DTP
Cisco switches can dynamically enable trunking on an interface through the use of a Cisco proprietary
protocol called Dynamic Trunking Protocol (DTP). For instance, the default dynamic trunking state is
called desirable, which actively tries to negotiate trunking as long as the other side of the trunk uses a
compatible DTP condition.
The possible trunking modes are as follows:
. Access—The port does not trunk because it is an access port with a single VLAN.
. Trunk—The port permanently trunks and tries to negotiate the far-end to trunk with DTP.
. Dynamic Desirable—The port negotiates to trunk if the other side is set to trunk, desirable, or
auto.
. Dynamic Auto—The port negotiates to trunk if the other side is set to trunk or desirable.
. Nonegotiate—The port permanently trunks, but disables DTP negotiation (for connecting to nonCisco switches).

12_0789735199_CH09.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 313

313

VLAN Trunking Protocol

To verify the trunk configuration and status, use the show interface trunk command:
Switch>show interface trunk
Port
Mode
Encapsulation
Fa0/24
on
802.1q
Port
Fa0/24

Status
trunking

Native vlan
1

Vlans allowed on trunk
1-4094

Port
Fa0/24

Vlans allowed and active in management domain
1-4

Port
Fa0/24

Vlans in spanning tree forwarding state and not pruned
1-4

The output lists the ports that are configured to trunk and the encapsulation and VLANs that
are allowed to traverse the trunk (all VLANs by default). In addition, because the interface is
now set up as a trunk, you no longer see interface Fast Ethernet 0/24 listed in the show vlan
output because it is no longer an access port.

EXAM ALERT
If the output of the show vlan command is displayed, know that missing interfaces are set up as a
VLAN trunk and are not listed.

VLAN Trunking Protocol
Imagine you just configured 50 VLANs in your local switch. If you want to have these VLANs
span your 5 switches in your network, you have to configure each switch with those exact
VLANs. That is at least 200 more configurations that you have to perform before you can
even begin to assign the VLANs to their respective ports.
To minimize the administrative overhead involved in replicating VLAN configurations on the
remaining switches in your internetwork, Cisco has created a proprietary protocol called
VLAN Trunking Protocol (VTP). With VTP, you have to make the initial VLAN configuration on only a single switch. This switch has a special role to propagate any VLAN revisions
(additions, changes, or deletions) to the rest of the switches that want to receive these updates,
known collectively as a VTP domain.

VTP Modes
A VTP domain is similar to a large corporation in that there are specific job responsibilities
and functions that everyone must perform in accordance to a job role. The switches inside a

12_0789735199_CH09.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 314

314

Chapter 9: Virtual LANs

VTP domain also have a hierarchy in the roles that they can perform and the responsibilities
of the switches that result from that role. These roles are dictated by the VTP mode in which
they operate and ultimately define the level of VLAN configuration allowed on the switches
and whether the VLAN information is stored and propagated. The three VTP modes in which
a switch can operate are server, client, and transparent mode, which are discussed in the following sections.

NOTE
VTP only advertises the VLANs that are configured. It does not advertise the VLAN interface assignments
because switches can contain different hardware.

Server Mode
In the corporation analogy, a switch operating in server mode would be considered the CEO
of the network. It is responsible for maintaining the VLAN information for the rest of the
network by telling everyone else what to do. In server mode, you have complete autonomy
and are able to make any additions, deletions, or changes to the VLAN configurations.
Because this functionality seems to be a reasonable function of all switches, server is the
default VTP mode of all switches.
After you make a revision to the VLAN information in the VLAN database, the changes are
propagated across trunk links to other switches in the VTP domain to synchronize their
VLAN databases with the server’s configuration. Each VTP advertisement from the VTP
server contains a revision number in the message. When other switches receive this information, they compare the revision number of the new message to the last revision received. If the
information is new (higher revision number), the switches apply those changes to their VLAN
configurations. If the revision number is the same as the advertisement, the switches know
that they have the latest information and ignore the update. In instances when the revision
number advertised is lower than the current one in the database, they send an update to the
sender because the sender’s information is older than what they contain in their VLAN databases.

Client Mode
Imagine the chaos your company would have if everyone in the organization was the CEO.
You would have everybody trying to tell each other what to do and nothing would ultimately
get done. At some point, you need to have faithful workers who follow every word that the
CEO tells them. In other words, you need yes-men.
The yes-men in the VTP domain are those switches that operate in client mode. Their sole
purpose is to take the configuration revision from server switches and incorporate them into
their operations. These switches also propagate those changes to other switches to ensure that

12_0789735199_CH09.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 315

315

VLAN Trunking Protocol

the advertisement is heard across the entire VTP domain. Unlike switches in server mode,
however, client mode switches do not permanently store their VLAN information in the
VLAN database. Thus if switches in client mode reboot, they do not contain any VLAN information until they receive an update from the VTP server.
Because they receive their configuration from the VTP server, switches in VTP client mode
cannot add, change, or delete VLANs. In fact, the IOS reports back an error similar to the following:
VTP VLAN configuration not allowed when device is in CLIENT mode.

This lack of functionality is actually quite useful when new switches are added to an existing
VTP domain so they do not accidentally advertise incorrect VLAN information to switches in
the VTP domain (assuming their revision number is higher).

Transparent Mode
To round out the corporation analogy, the inevitable third type of worker in large corporations
is the disgruntled employee. These employees believe they know how to run the company better than the CEO, so they do things their way. However, to ensure that they keep their jobs,
they don’t let anyone know about their delusions.
Similarly, switches running in transparent mode also do their own thing in the sense that they
are allowed to add, change, and remove VLAN configurations. In addition, they store those
VLAN configurations in their VLAN database so they are present when the switch reboots.
The key difference between server and transparent mode switches is that transparent mode
switches do not advertise their configurations to other switches. In addition, they also do not
use any configuration revisions being advertised by server switches. They do, however, send
those advertisements out their trunk ports to other switches in case there are client mode
switches downstream from them. In other words, the switch is transparent because the advertisements from the server seem to pass right through them.
So why have transparent mode in the first place? Basically, transparent mode enables you to
create your own VLAN configurations that are contained within a single switch. This is useful if you have VLANs connected to that switch that are not used by any other switches in the
domain.
The obvious follow-up question to this is, “Why use VTP on this switch if it does not listen
to the VTP server revisions or advertise its own VLANs?” To answer this question, take a look
at the exhibit in Figure 9.5. When the switch in server mode sends its VTP revision to the
switch operating in transparent mode, that switch ignores the advertisement and passes it to
the client switches below. If the transparent switch did not participate in VTP, it would drop
those advertisements from the server and the client switches would never receive the configuration revisions.

12_0789735199_CH09.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 316

316

Chapter 9: Virtual LANs

v.
Ad 5
13
v.
Re

P

VT

VT
Re P A
d
v.
13 v.
5

Server

Client

v.
Ad 5
13
v.
Re

P

Client

VT

VT
Re P A
d
v.
13 v.
5

Transparent

Client

FIGURE 9.5

VTP domain with transparent switch.

EXAM ALERT
Make sure you understand the functions of each VTP role. Also, remember that you must be in either
server or transparent mode to make any VLAN configuration changes in a switch.

CAUTION
VTP Revision Mayhem When adding a new switch to an existing VTP domain, it is highly recommended
that you put the switch in client mode. If you left your switch in the default server mode, you could possibly have a higher revision number than the existing server of the domain. If you add that switch to the
domain and you do not have any VLANs configured, when you advertise that to the rest of the VTP
domain, the client and the other server use that configuration because it has a higher number. That would
cause all the VLANs to be removed in all switches because your VLAN database does not contain any
VLAN configurations.
To reset your revision number, you can either change the name of your VTP domain or set your switch to
transparent mode followed by server mode.

VTP Pruning
VLAN traffic is being sent over trunk links to other switches no matter whether or not the
VLAN is active on an interface. In other words, if a user connected to VLAN 2 sends a broadcast, that message is replicated to all switches in the domain regardless of whether VLAN 2 is
assigned to a switch port. This could consume unnecessary bandwidth on the trunk links connecting the switches.

12_0789735199_CH09.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 317

317

Configuring and Verifying VTP

To minimize the traffic overhead, you can configure VTP pruning on the VTP server of the
domain. When enabled, switches advertise to each other which VLANs are active. With this
information, the switch can limit VLAN traffic to other switches that do not have the VLAN
active on an interface, minimizing the amount of unnecessary traffic that is sent to other
switches on the trunk link.

Configuring and Verifying VTP
Similar to the VLAN configurations, VTP is configured in the VLAN database. In this configuration mode, you can easily change the VTP mode of the switch from server to transparent or client mode. In addition, you can define your VTP domain name as well as assign an
MD5 password for VTP updates. The domain name (and password if configured) are case sensitive and must match in all switches in the VTP domain or the VTP updates will be ignored
from other switches and VTP will not function.
To configure VTP-specific properties, use the vtp command followed by the VTP parameter
you want to configure. Similar to VLAN configurations in the VLAN database, they are not
applied until you exit the VLAN database or type the apply command, as illustrated in the following configuration example:
Switch#vlan database
Switch(vlan)#vtp transparent
Setting device to VTP TRANSPARENT mode.
Switch(vlan)#vtp domain CCNA
Changing VTP domain name from null to CCNA
Switch(vlan)#vtp password imustmatch
Setting device VLAN database password to imustmatch
Switch(vlan)#apply
APPLY completed.

In this configuration, the default server mode was changed to transparent mode. To communicate with other switches in the VTP domain, you have to configure the VTP domain to
CCNA as shown in this switch. In addition, the VTP password must also match in all configurations to ensure VTP updates are authenticated from each other.

EXAM ALERT
Be prepared to configure VTP parameters in a switch.

NOTE
Similar to VLAN configurations, VTP can also be configured in Global Configuration.

12_0789735199_CH09.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 318

318

Chapter 9: Virtual LANs

The show vtp status command is a critical command for verifying your VTP configuration.
As demonstrated in Figure 9.6, the show vtp status command displays the revision number
of the VTP updates from the server, the operating mode, domain name, pruning status, and
the MD5 digest of the password.

FIGURE 9.6

show vtp status output.

EXAM ALERT
Given the output(s) of the show vtp status command, be able to identify the operating mode and
what functionality the switch has because of that VTP mode. In addition, be able to troubleshoot VTP
inconsistencies such as non-matching VTP domain and MD5 passwords.

InterVLAN Routing
One of the remarkable features about VLAN segmentation with a Layer 2 switch is that the
traffic from one VLAN remains separate from all other VLANs. Quite often, however, devices
need to communicate or access services with another device that is in another VLAN. Because
the VLANs are in separate networks (broadcast domains), you need a device that is capable of
routing in between networks. In other words, you need a router or a Layer 3 switch.



Chapter 9: Virtual LANs

Each broadcast domain that is created in a switch is associated with an IP subnet. Devices in
the same VLAN share the same subnet so they can use IP to communicate with each other.
Routers and Layer 2 switches route between the logical subnets to allow traffic from one
VLAN to reach another VLAN. This is known as interVLAN routing.

Router on a Stick
Objective:
Customize a switch configuration to meet specified network requirements
One method of routing between VLANs is to use a router. Because each VLAN is associated
with its own subnet, a router needs to have an interface for each VLAN (IP subnet) so it can
route in between them. This can become a costly and unscalable solution if you have a large
number of VLANs in your switched network.
The most effective manner of using a router to perform interVLAN routing is something
commonly referred to as “router on a stick.” The gist behind this solution is to produce a configuration in which the router can see all the VLAN traffic over a single link. In other words,
the router trunks to a switch over a single link, hence the term “router on a stick.” Despite the
router being able to see all the VLAN traffic, however, it still requires interfaces with IP subnets assigned to them to route in between these VLANs. The answer for this is something
called subinterfaces.
Subinterfaces are virtual interfaces that are created on a single physical interface. When a
physical interface is divided into these virtual interfaces, the router still considers them to be
directly connected interfaces with subnets assigned to them and can route in between them.
To create the subinterfaces, you navigate in the IOS as you would to a physical interface; however, you add a decimal followed by the logical subinterface number. The IOS prompt changes
to reflect Router(config-subif)#, signifying you are in the subinterface configuration mode,
as demonstrated here:
Router(config)#interface FastEthernet 0/1.1
Router(config-subif)#

The decimal number you assign to an interface does not have to be in any sequential order. In
fact, for good design practices, you should use the same number of the VLAN for which you
created the subinterface. In addition, because these are logical interfaces, if one subinterface
goes down, it does not affect the rest of the subinterfaces. However, if the physical interface
happens to go down, then logic follows that all your subinterfaces go down with the ship, so
to speak. Additionally, you do not need to enable no shutdown on each subinterface; this is
required only on the physical interface itself.

12_0789735199_CH09.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 321

321

InterVLAN Routing

After you create a subinterface for a VLAN on your Fast Ethernet or Gigabit interface
(remember trunks must be at least 100Mbps), you can assign the IP address to the interface for
that VLAN’s subnet. This IP address is the default gateway for all the devices in that VLAN
because the default gateway is the IP address to which devices send their traffic destined for
another network. To assign the VLAN to each subinterface, you must use the encapsulation
command and signify which method of VLAN tagging you have configured on the trunk, followed by the VLAN assigned to that subinterface.

EXAM ALERT
To use a router-on-a-stick solution for interVLAN routing, you must trunk between the router and the
switch. In addition, the interface must be at least Fast Ethernet and contain subinterfaces for each
VLAN.

For instance, given a scenario similar to Figure 9.7, you would create a subinterface in the
router for each VLAN. The IP address assigned to these interfaces acts at the default gateway
for the PCs. When the computer in VLAN 1 wants to send traffic to the computer in VLAN
3, it sends the traffic over the switch trunks to the router that is to route and re-encapsulate
the ethernet frame to have a VLAN ID of VLAN 3. When the switches receive the frame,
they forward it out of only access ports that have VLAN 3 assigned to it.
Int f0/1.1, VLAN 1, IP: 192.168.1.1/24
Int f0/1.3, VLAN 3, IP: 192.168.3.1/24

VLAN 1

VLAN 3

IP: 192.168.1.2/24

IP: 192.168.3.2/24

Gateway: 192.168.1.1/24

Gateway: 192.168.3.1/24

FIGURE 9.7

Router-on-a-stick scenario.

12_0789735199_CH09.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 322

322

Chapter 9: Virtual LANs

The router configuration for Figure 9.7 would look like the following, assuming you are using
ISL trunks:
Router(config)#interface FastEthernet 0/1.1
Router(config-subif)#ip address 192.168.1.1 255.255.255.0
Router(config-subif)#encapsulation isl 1
Router(config)#interface FastEthernet 0/1.3
Router(config-subif)#ip address 192.168.3.1 255.255.255.0
Router(config-subif)#encapsulation isl 3

NOTE
Refer to Appendix A, “Future Exam Topics,” if you wish to learn how to configure interVLAN routing using
a Layer 3 switch.

12_0789735199_CH09.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 323

323

Chapter Summary

Chapter Summary
VLANs are convenient for segmenting broadcast domains at Layer 2. The departments of an
enterprise can be assigned their own logical VLAN to ensure traffic in one VLAN does not
affect other VLANs. In fact, VLAN traffic cannot go from one VLAN to another VLAN without the assistance of an external router or a Layer 3 switch.
VLANs can be statically assigned to switch access ports, or a VMPS can be used to assign them
dynamically. By default, all interfaces are assigned to the management VLAN, VLAN 1. To
configure a VLAN, enter the VLAN database and create the VLAN and name it. After the
VLANs are created, you must assign them to your switch ports by using the switchport
access vlan command.
VLANs can span multiple switches by using ISL or 802.1q trunks. This makes it simple to
move users throughout a switched network with no geographic restrictions. ISL is a Cisco proprietary VLAN tagging that encapsulates the original ethernet frame with a 26-byte header
and a 4-byte CRC. Because this exceeds a typical frame MTU, the trunk must be point-topoint (directly connected). 802.1q is an IEEE standard of frame tagging that inserts the VLAN
ID in the original ethernet frame and calculates a new CRC. 802.1q also uses the concept
of native VLANs, which are VLANs that are not tagged as they traverse a trunk. To configure
a trunk, you must first define the encapsulation method with the switchport trunk
encapsulation command, and then set the interface to trunk with the switchport mode
trunk command.
To minimize the amount of VLAN administration in switches, Cisco created VTP, which
entails a VTP server sending advertisements with revision numbers containing the VLANs in
the VTP domain. VTP clients use that information from the server; however, they cannot create, modify, or delete any VLANs. Transparent mode does not use the information sent from
VTP servers; conversely, they can create, modify, or delete (but not advertise) their VLANs.
VTP configuration also transpires in the VLAN database, in which you can switch the switch’s
operating mode, define the domain name, and assign a VTP password for update authentication.
To allow traffic from one VLAN to another, you must configure interVLAN routing. If you
use an external router (router on stick), you must trunk to the interface and configure subinterfaces to route in between the VLANs.

Key Terms
. VLANs

. management VLAN

. ISL

. access ports

. trunk

. 802.1q

. VMPS

. multiplexing

. native VLANs

13_0789735199_CH10.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 336

336

Chapter 10: Introduction to Routing and Routing Protocols

Introduction
Having exhausted the functionality and features of Layer 2, it is time to step up one more rung
of the OSI model and delve into Layer 3, the Network layer. Recall that Layer 3 is responsible for determining the best path to a network, using logical addressing such as IP addresses.
This chapter discusses the fundamentals of how Layer 3 devices such as routers and Layer 3
switches develop the routing logic to determine where to forward IP packets to reach a destination network.

The Default Gateway
To fully comprehend the routing of data, it helps to start where much of the data in a network
originates: the computer. As application data is sent down the protocol stack, the source and
destination IP address is added to the IP header. If the destination IP address is located on the
same IP subnet as that on which the computer is, the computer adds the destination MAC
address of that device at Layer 2 and sends it on the wire.
In instances where the destination IP address is on a remote network, it must send that traffic
to a router on its segment that can forward the packet toward the destination network.
Although you are going to forward traffic to this default gateway, the destination IP address
remains unchanged. However, at Layer 2, the destination MAC address of the ethernet frame
reflects the default gateway’s MAC address because this is the forwarding device on the local
data link segment.
In the example illustrated in Figure 10.1, the PC is sending traffic to the server on the remote
10.1.34.0 network. The source IP address and MAC address are those matching the PC. On
the other hand, the Layer 3 destination IP address of the IP packet reflects the IP address of
the server (10.1.34.101). Because the destination IP address does not exist on the PC’s local
subnet of 192.168.1.0, the PC encapsulates the router’s Ethernet 0 MAC at Layer 2 because
that is the configured default gateway for this segment. The switch in this scenario is operating as only a Layer 2 switch. Thus, despite having an IP address for management, this is not
the default gateway for this segment because it is only forwarding frames at Layer 2.

EXAM ALERT
Despite having IP addresses assigned to switches for management purposes, Layer 2 switches do not
act as the default gateway. If the exam does not mention the switch is Layer 2 or Layer 3, assume it is
a Layer 2 switch.

13_0789735199_CH10.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 337

337

Routing Sources

Destination
IP:
10.1.34.101

Int V1, IP: 192.168.1.8 /24

Int E0, IP: 192.168.1.1 /24

MAC: FE42 ABC3 74F1

MAC: 1243 52FE A126

Int E1, IP:10.1.34.1 /24
MAC: 1243 523F A26C
L2

Destination MAC:
1243 52FE A126

L3

L4

Destination IP:
10.1.34.101

FIGURE 10.1
IP: 10.1.34.101 /24
MAC: A345 764C F234

Default gateway example.

When the router receives the frame addresses to its interface MAC, it processes the Layer 3
information and consults its routing logic to determine whether it knows where to route the
packet. Because the destination network is attached to the router, it knows to send the packet
out its Ethernet 1 interface. A new ethernet frame using its Ethernet 1 MAC address (1243
523F A26C) for the source MAC address and the server’s MAC address (A345 764C F234) as
the destination MAC are added to the original IP data as it is sent out to the destination segment.

EXAM ALERT
Be comfortable identifying what the source and destination IP address and MAC address should be at
any point of the data delivery.

Routing Sources
Routers are methodical, tactless devices in that they do not necessarily care about the individual IP addresses that exist on a subnet. Their sole obsession is to maintain their routing
logic by keeping track of the networks that exist and which interfaces to use to send the traffic if an IP packet is destined for that network. By using routing devices to relay packets out
of their interfaces to other forwarding devices or the destination network, the IP packet eventually reaches the destination.
At the heart of the routing logic for Layer 3 devices is the routing table. This table, located
in volatile RAM, contains a mapping of all the best routes to networks that the router is aware

13_0789735199_CH10.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 338

338

Chapter 10: Introduction to Routing and Routing Protocols

of and the interfaces to exit to reach those networks. So how is the router aware of these networks? Generally, there are three routing sources that can feed the routing table with this
information:
. Connected Interfaces—As soon as you assign an IP address to a working (up/line

protocol up) interface, the router associates the entire subnet of the interface’s IP
address in the routing table.
. Static Routes—These are manual entries that an administrator enters into the config-

uration to specify the destination network and the next hop (router along the destination path).
. Routing Protocols—Protocols exchanged between routing devices to dynamically

advertise networks.
Connected interfaces remain in the routing tables as long as the interface is active and has a
valid IP address assigned to it. Static routes remain in the table as long as you do not remove
the static route configuration and the next hop is valid (interface to next hop is up). Networks
learned from dynamic routing protocols remain in the routing table as long as the next hop is
valid and the routing devices do not stop hearing the network(s) being advertised from the
neighbor routers.

Administrative Distance
Now that you are aware of the multiple sources of routing information, you must consider a
feasible anomaly that could occur with your routing sources. Namely, if you have several
sources of information such as connected interfaces, static routes, and multiple routing protocols, which one are you to trust when more than one source advertises the same network? For
example, if a router learns about the 192.168.1.0/24 network from a routing protocol and a
static route, how does the router decide which entry to place into its routing table?
The answer lies within a program logic in the IOS called the administrative distance. The
administrative distances are arbitrary values between 1 and 255 that are assigned to routing
information sources. These values represent a level of trustworthiness of the information
source, in which lower administrative distances are preferred over higher ones.

NOTE
The administrative distance applies only when multiple sources are advertising exactly the same subnet.

Table 10.1 lists the Cisco IOS default administrative distances for some of the routing sources.

13_0789735199_CH10.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 339

339

Static Routes

TABLE 10.1

Default Administrative Distances

Routed Source

Default Distance

Connected

0

Static Route

1

EIGRP (internal)

90

IGRP

100

OSPF

110

RIPv1 and v2

120

EIGRP (external)

170

It should come as no shock that connected interfaces are the most trustworthy sources because
they are connected directly to the local router. Static routes have a low administrative distance
of 1 because the Cisco IOS assumes that you are competent administrators and any manual
entry of a routable network is trusted over any dynamic routing protocols such as EIGRP,
IGRP, OSPF, and RIP.

EXAM ALERT
Memorizing the default administrative distances serves as a resourceful tool in answering questions
on the CCNA exams.

Static Routes
When you interconnect routers together as demonstrated in Figure 10.2, they are aware of
only their directly connected networks. Unless you configure a static route or use routing protocols, the routers will never know about their neighbors’ ethernet networks because they are
not connected. In other words, Router A is not aware of Router B’s 172.17.0.0 network and
Router B is not aware of Router A’s 172.16.0.0 network.
So when do you use static routes as opposed to routing protocols? As mentioned before, static routes are manual configuration entries in which you tell the router how to get to destination networks that are not locally attached. This is useful in simple networks such as the one
in Figure 10.2 in which there is a single link in or out of the networks, known as a stub network. Because there is only one link to get to the neighbor network, you don’t need to worry
about reacting dynamically if the path fails because there are not any alternate paths to that
network. Additionally, if you want to have complete control of your routing path decisions or
you want to conserve bandwidth on your links (routing protocols consume bandwidth), static
routes can provide you authoritative control without requiring any link bandwidth or
resources because they require only a local configuration.

13_0789735199_CH10.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 340

340

Chapter 10: Introduction to Routing and Routing Protocols

I know my
connected
192.168.1.0 /24
and 172.16.0.0 /16
networks

172.16.0.0 /16

A
S0/0
192.168.1.9 /30

I know my
connected
192.168.1.0 /24
and 172.17.0.0 /16
networks

B
S0/0
192.168.1.10 /30

172.17.0.0 /16

FIGURE 10.2

Static route
exhibit.

EXAM ALERT
Keep in mind that static routes are used when you have a stub network, want control of your routing
decisions, or want to conserve bandwidth on links.

Configuring Static Routes
The general idea behind the static route is to tell the router how to get to a destination network that is not attached to it by going through another router’s interface. It is similar to
telling someone, “To go outside, go through that door.” The syntax to configure a static route
in global configuration is ip route followed by the destination network, destination subnet
mask, and the next-hop IP address of the neighbor’s interface. For example, to configure a
route to the 10.0.0.0/8 network through the neighbor’s serial interface of 192.168.2.5, the
command would look like the following:
Router(config)#ip route 10.0.0.0 255.0.0.0 192.168.2.5

NOTE
It is possible to specify the local interface instead of using a next-hop IP address on point-to-point links (a
link with only two routers connected it on each side). On multi-access links such as ethernet or Frame
Relay, you should not use the interface because the local router does not know to which router to forward
the information if multiple devices exist on the link.

13_0789735199_CH10.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 341

341

Static Routes

In the stub network example in Figure 10.3, a static route to Router A and one to Router B were
added, telling them about their neighbors’ ethernet networks. These entries are placed in their
routing tables, specifying any packets that are destined for those respective networks must go to
the IP of the neighbor’s serial 0/0 interface. From that point, the packets will be routed out
Router A and Router B’s ethernet interface because those destination networks are directly connected to the router. This entry remains in the routing table as long as the next hop address
remains valid (the serial network does not go down) or the configuration is not removed.

Now I know about
the 192.168.1.0 /24,
172.16.0.0 /16, and
172.17.0.0 /16
networks

172.16.0.0 /16

A
S0/0
192.168.1.9 /30

Now I know about
the 192.168.1.0 /24,
172.17.0.0 /16, and
172.16.0.0 /16
networks

B
S0/0
192.168.1.10 /30

172.17.0.0 /16

RouterA(config)#ip route 172.17.0.0 255.255.0.0 192.168.1.10
RouterB(config)#ip route 172.16.0.0 255.255.0.0 192.168.1.9

FIGURE 10.3

Static route
configuration
example.

Floating Static Routes
At the end of an ip route static route command, it is possible to add a parameter to assign
this particular static route a higher administrative distance than the default administrative distance of 1. These entries, known as floating static routes, are not placed in the routing table if
the subnet is being advertised by a routing source with a lower administrative distance.
Floating static routes are useful when you have a stand-by redundant link to another network
that will activate in the event of a primary link failure.
For example, consider the example configured in Figure 10.4. Because you have redundant
point-to-point links, you can configure the primary static route as usual and include a floating static route to be used if the primary link fails. The 2 at the end of the second static route
identifies that route as the floating static route. This entry does not show up in the routing
table because the primary route advertises the same subnet with a lower administrative distance (if not specified, the default is 1). If one of the serial 0/0 interfaces on the primary link
goes down, the next hop is no longer valid and is removed from the routing table. Because the
floating static route has the next lowest administrative distance, that entry is put in the routing table and that link is used until the primary link returns.

13_0789735199_CH10.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 342

342

Chapter 10: Introduction to Routing and Routing Protocols

I will use the static route
through 192.168.1.10. I
will use the route through
192.168.1.6 only if the
other route goes down.

S0/1
192.168.1.5 /30

172.16.0.0 /16

A
S0/0
192.168.1.9 /30

S0/1
192.168.1.6 /30

B
S0/0
192.168.1.10 /30

172.17.0.0 /16

FIGURE 10.4
RouterA(config)#ip route 172.17.0.0 255.255.0.0 192.168.1.10
RouterB(config)#ip route 172.17.0.0 255.255.0.0 192.168.1.6 2

Floating static
route
configuration
example.

EXAM ALERT
If an administrative distance is not specified, a Cisco router uses the default administrative distance
for static routes (1). If an administrative distance is specified, it is being used as a floating static route
if a redundant link fails.

Default Routes
Static routes have proved their usefulness in situations where you want to add a network entry
in a routing table when the network is reachable via a single path. This can turn into a daunting administrative task when there are a large number of networks in which you must configure static routes. This is especially true when you are connecting to your ISP because you do
not want to configure a static route for every network on the Internet.
In these situations, you might be better served using something called a default route, as illustrated in Figure 10.5. This entry is a gateway of last resort for routers in that if a destination
IP address does not have a network entry in the routing table, this route is used. The syntax
for a default route is similar to a static route except that the destination and subnet mask are
both 0.0.0.0:
Router(config)#ip route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 192.168.1.10

NOTE
Once again, you can specify the local interface as opposed to the next-hop IP address on a point-to-point
link.

13_0789735199_CH10.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 343

343

Verifying Static and Default Routes

Internet

ISP
S0/0
192.168.1.10 /30

172.16.0.0 /16

A
S0/0
192.168.1.9 /30

Default
route configuration
example.
FIGURE 10.5

RouterA(config)#ip route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 serial 0/0

EXAM ALERT
Be sure to look closely at the wording in a question regarding a default route (gateway of last resort).
When used in a router, the command is ip route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0; however, to configure a
default route in a Layer 2 switch, it is ip default-gateway because Layer 2 switches do not have
Layer 3 routing entries.

Verifying Static and Default Routes
The best way to verify a static or default route configuration is by checking that the route is
evident in the routing table. The command to view the IP routing table is show ip route. If
you want to see the routing entry for a specific network, you can append that subnet to the
show ip route command (for example, show ip route 192.168.23.0). Figure 10.6 displays
the output of the show ip route command.

FIGURE 10.6

show ip route output.

13_0789735199_CH10.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 344

344

Chapter 10: Introduction to Routing and Routing Protocols

Notice the top of the output has a legend identifying the possible codes that can be listed in
the routing table. In the table itself, you can see the two directly connected networks signified
by the letter C. In addition, you can also see the static route to 172.17.0.0 and the static default
route entries (indicated by the letter S), using 192.168.100.10 as the next hop. Also notice that
the routing table identifies that the gateway of last resort (192.168.100.10) is set on this router
because a default route was configured with the next hop to that address.

TIP
You can clear out an entry in your routing table by using the clear command followed by the network or
* for all networks in Privileged EXEC. For example, to clear the 192.168.1.0 network from your routing
table, you would type the following:
Router#clear ip route 192.168.1.0

Dynamic Routing Protocols
Objective:
Evaluate the characteristics of routing protocols
Select an appropriate routing protocol based on user requirements
When complex networks contain multiple interconnections, static routes are no longer a practical solution because they cannot adapt or react to changes in the topology. Not to mention,
the configuration complexity can grow exponentially as you add more devices to the network.

EXAM ALERT
Do not confuse routing protocols with routed protocols on the exam. Routed protocols are protocols
such as those in the IP protocol suite that are used to carry the data across our network. Routing protocols are exchanged between routing devices to determine the optimal path to route the routed protocols.

For example, given the network design in Figure 10.7, Router A will know only the three
directly connected networks attached to the router. For IP packets to reach the 172.17.0.0
network via static routes, you would have to configure Router A to go through one of its
neighbor routers, such as Router B. However, Router B also requires a static route to
172.17.0.0 because that network is not directly connected to it. Supposing that the router is
using Router F as its next hop, that router does not require a static route since it is directly
connected. Unfortunately, our configuration undertaking does not stop there because we have
to configure a static route in Router F and Router B back to the 172.16.0.0 network.

13_0789735199_CH10.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 345

345

Dynamic Routing Protocols

F

B

A

E

172.16.0.0 /16

172.17.0.0 /16

FIGURE 10.7

C

D

Complex internetwork
design.

Granted, the configuration scenario in Figure 10.7 is not drastically difficult or strenuous, but
imagine if the network contained 20 more routers. More importantly, consider what would
happen if the link between A and B went down. Because the routes are statically configured in
the routers, you must now go back and remove the static routes in Routers A and B and redirect the traffic by configuring static routes to go through Routers C, D, and E. Not to mention, you must remove and reconfigure static routes back to the 172.16.0.0 network in Routers
F, E, D, and C.
To alleviate the administrative calamity you might have to encounter with static routes in complex networks, you can use dynamic routing protocols. If you configure routing protocols, the
routers will advertise their connected networks to the rest of the routers in the network, thus
minimizing the amount of configuration required. In addition, routing protocols can detect
and adapt to topology changes in the internetwork.

Routing Metrics
Because one of the core responsibilities of routing protocols is to build routing tables to determine optimal routing paths, you need to have some means of measuring which routes are preferred when there are multiple pathways to a destination. Routing protocols use some measure of metrics to identify which routes are optimal to reach a destination network. The lowest
cumulative metric to a destination is the preferred path and the one that ultimately enters the
routing table. Different routing protocols use one or several of the following metrics to calculate the best path:
. Hop count—The number of routing devices that the packet must travel to reach a

destination network.
. Bandwidth—The cumulative bandwidth of the links to the destination in kilobits per

second.

13_0789735199_CH10.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 346

346

Chapter 10: Introduction to Routing and Routing Protocols
. Delay—The length of time (measured in microseconds) a packet takes from source to

destination.
. Reliability—The consistency of the links and paths toward the destination based upon

error rates of the interfaces.
. Load—The cumulative amount of congestion or saturation of the links towards the

destination.
. MTU—The maximum frame size that is allowed to traverse the links to the destina-

tion.
. Cost—An arbitrary number typically based upon the bandwidth of the link.

Classful and Classless Routing Updates
As you will see in the following sections, routing protocols are categorized into several different classifications based upon common characteristics and properties that they share. The first
of these classifications revolves around the contents of routing updates that Layer 3 devices
advertise to their neighbors. Specifically, if the routing updates do not contain the subnet mask
along with their respective advertised networks, they are said to be classful routing protocols.
Conversely, if the subnet mask is transmitted along with the network information, it is
characterized as a classless routing protocol. This may seem like a trivial characteristic to define
routing protocols, but as you will see, the results of the subnet mask being present or not in
routing updates can affect the routing protocols you choose and how efficiently you can design
your entire network.
With classful routing protocols, you assume that your network’s design conforms to the class
boundaries of IP subnets. In other words, major networks in your design use their default
classful subnet masks as described in Chapter 4, “IP at the Network Layer” (for example, Class
A uses 255.0.0.0, Class B uses 255.255.0.0, and Class C uses 255.255.255.0). If you happen to
subnet a major network into smaller subnets, classful routing protocols are disadvantageous
because they do not receive the revised subnet mask. For this reason, classful routing protocols will updates in one of two ways:
. If the network in the updates matches the same major classful network on the interface

through which it was received, it uses the subnet mask of the interface and places it in
the routing table.
. If the router advertises a network to a different major network out an interface that is

not in the same major network, it automatically summarizes the network to its classful
boundary.

13_0789735199_CH10.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 347

347

Dynamic Routing Protocols

For example, when Router B in Figure 10.8 sends an update to Router A using a classful routing protocol (RIP in this example), it summarizes the 172.17.30.0/24 to a default Class B
172.17.0.0 network because it is going out the serial 0/0 interface, which does not contain a
subnet in that major network. The 192.168.1.60 network, on the other hand, is in the same
major network, so it does not automatically summarize that subnet. When Router A receives
that update, it adds the 172.17.0.0 network to its routing table, specifying Router B’s serial
interface IP (192.168.1.10) as the next hop to reach that network. In addition, it adds the
192.168.1.60 network as well, using its interface mask because it is in that same major network.

192.168.1.60 is in the
major Class C network
of 192.168.1.0, so I will
use my interface’s
mask in that same
network.
Routing Update
192.168.1.60
172.17.0.0

A
172.16.25.0 /24

S0/0
192.168.1.9 /30

B
S0/0
192.168.1.10 /30

172.17.30.0 /24

Routing Table
C 192.168.1.9/30
C 172.16.25.0 /24
R 172.17.0.0 /16
R 192.168.1.60 /30

FIGURE 10.8
192.168.1.60 /30

Classful routing
update scenario.

Now consider if the ethernet segment of Router B’s 192.168.1.60 network had a /29 subnet
mask. The end result would still be the same as before in that Router B would advertise the
192.168.1.60 subnet and Router A would use its interface’s subnet mask of /30. In these
instances, classful routing protocols are not the optimal choice because Router A has a route
to only a third of the 192.168.1.60 /29 subnet. For this reason, when you subnet a major network, you must be sure that you use the same subnet mask throughout your network design
with classful routing protocols. This same subnet design is commonly referred to as a Fixed
Length Subnet Mask (FLSM) network design.
Classful routing protocols can also be problematic when major classful networks are subnetted and are haphazardly dispersed throughout the network, as illustrated in Figure 10.9.
When Routers A and C summarize their networks to Router B, Router B thinks that the
172.16.0.0 network is out both of its serial interfaces. This could easily result in traffic destined for 172.16.10.0 and 172.16.50.0 being load balanced out each interface, resulting in 50%
packet loss because the packets are sent in a round robin fashion between both interfaces.

13_0789735199_CH10.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 348

348

Chapter 10: Introduction to Routing and Routing Protocols

172.16.0.0/16

???

ng
2.1 Upd
6.0 ate
.0

te
da
Up 0
ing 6.0.
1

ut

68
2.1
19

30

2/

.1

.1

68

.1.

17

8/3

0

uti

2.

17

1
2.

19

Ro

Ro

B

FIGURE 10.9
A
172.16.10.0 /24

C
172.16.50.0 /24

Discontiguous
network example.

EXAM ALERT
Be sure to know that classful routing protocols support automatic summarization and must have a
FLSM network design without any discontiguous networks.

Because classless routing protocols advertise the subnet masks in their routing updates,
discontiguous networks are no longer an issue because routing devices are aware of the subnetted networks. In addition, the requirement of using the same subnet mask throughout the
network ceases to apply because the routers do not automatically summarize the networks to
a classful boundary. No longer inhibited by these constraints, you are free to use different subnet masks, known as Variable Length Subnet Masks (VLSMs) in your network design. In addition, you now have full autonomy to manually summarize networks as you wish to help keep
routing tables small to conserve resources. VLSM and route summarization are described in
greater detail in the following sections.

EXAM ALERT
Be sure to know that classless routing protocols support discontiguous networks, VLSM, and route
summarization.

13_0789735199_CH10.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 349

349

Dynamic Routing Protocols

VLSM
Objective:
Design an IP addressing scheme to support classful, classless, and private addressing to meet
design requirements
Using classless routing protocols affords you the luxury of having support for a VLSM network design. This is advantageous in your network planning because you can allot the appropriate number of IP addresses required for each link. Not to mention, by assigning the minimal number of IP addresses required for an given link, you conserve IP addresses. For example, you can use a /30 subnet mask for point-to-point links because you need only two available IP addresses and a /27 subnet mask on an ethernet segment to accommodate 30 hosts. If
you were using classless routing protocols, you would have to use a /27 for all links, which
would inevitably waste 28 IP addresses on the point-to-point links.

EXAM ALERT
Remember that point-to-point links require only a /30 (255.255.255.252) subnet mask because you
need only an IP address for the router’s interfaces on each side of the link.

Throughout your certification and career, it is quite possible you will have to design your network given a usable subnet and host requirements for all your links. When tackling this
designing task, be sure to adhere to the following guidelines:
1. If possible, start with the larger subnets first.
2. Write out the ranges that you have assigned to ensure you do not accidentally overlap

subnets.
3. Make sure your networks start on incremental boundaries (128, 64, 32, and so on).

EXAM ALERT
Be prepared to use VLSM to assign subnets to links given the subnetable network and host requirements.
Route Summarization
As already mentioned, classful routing protocols automatically summarize advertised networks
to the classful subnet boundaries. Classless routing protocols, on the other hand, require you
to manually control the networks being summarized to your neighbors in the router configuration. By aggregating a contiguous set of networks into an advertised summarized route, you
keep the size of the routing tables to a minimum. Neighbors that receive the summarized route
do not need to know about the individual subnets you create behind your router because they
inevitably have to go through your router to get to them. The additional offshoot of this summarized picture is that your classless routing protocols do not need to notify those neighbors
if one of those subnets goes down because they do not even have that subnet in their routing
tables. Thus, you can isolate topology changes to be contained behind that summarizing
router.
Because you are required to manually specify the networks you are to advertise, you must learn
how to accurately summarize smaller subnets into one or several larger networks, or supernets.
The rules for supernetting are similar to subnetting, except in this case, you are stealing bits
from the network portion of an IP network to create a larger network. The rules for supernetting are as follows:
1. Be sure that the networks are contiguous (otherwise you would be summarizing net-

works that you do not have behind the router).
2. Count the number of networks you want to summarize.
3. Determine an increment that is equal to or less than the number of networks.
4. Make sure your base networks start on incremental boundaries (128, 64, 32, and so on)

for the number of networks you are summarizing.
5. Calculate the subnet mask by the number of bits you need to steal from the original

subnet to equal that incremental value.

13_0789735199_CH10.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 352

352

Chapter 10: Introduction to Routing and Routing Protocols

The beauty of supernetting is that the resultant network and subnet mask will designate many
IP address networks in a single entry. The fact that you are stealing bits from the network portion of an IP address could quite easily violate the traditional barriers of classful addressing,
known as Classless Interdomain Routing Notation or CIDR.
For instance, it would not be uncommon to see a summary entry look like the following:
192.168.16.0 /20. This single entry used to be a Class C (/24), but four bits were stolen from
4
the network portion to represent 16 networks (2 = 16). When you advertise this supernet to
neighbors, they know that they must go through your router to get to networks 192.168.16.0
through 192.168.31.0 (16 total networks).

EXAM ALERT
Be prepared to determine the networks being advertised in a given supernet or determine the summary
network, given the networks to be summarized.

Figure 10.11 illustrates a typical route summarization example in which Router B is summarizing all its subnetted networks to Router A as one supernetted network. Following the steps
outlined previously, you can determine the aggregate network entry to advertise, as follows:
. The networks are all contiguous so you can summarize them accurately.
. There are 32 total networks that are to be summarized.
. 32 conveniently falls on an incremental boundary.
. Because the network is 192.168.64.0, 64 is an increment of 32 so we can use that as

the base network for the summary route.
5

. You must steal 5 bits (2 = 32) from the /24 network, so /19 (24 – 5 = 19).

By creating the summary route 192.168.64.0 /19, Router A will only be required to maintain
that one entry in its routing table as opposed to the individual 32 subnets. If a topology change
occurs in one of the subnets behind Router B, there is no need to advertise that change to
Router A because it knows about only the summarized network.
Routing Update
192.168.64.0/19

A

Networks
B

192.168.64.0 /24
192.168.65.0 /24
…
192.168.95.0 /24

FIGURE 10.11 Supernetting route
summarization example.

13_0789735199_CH10.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 353

353

Dynamic Routing Protocols

NOTE
The number of summarized networks or the base network do not always conveniently fall on incremental
boundaries. In those instances, it may take several summary network entries to encompass all the networks you want to summarize.

Interior and Exterior Gateway Routing Protocols
Routing protocols can fall under two major categories depending on the autonomy of the network on which the routing protocol exists. The identifying characteristic of the category to
which the routing protocol belongs ultimately depends on whether the routing protocols
exchanges updates within a network that is under your administrative control. When the network is under your control in your own administrative domain, it is known as an autonomous
system. Routing protocols used to disseminate information to maintain routing tables and
establish pathways inside an autonomous system are categorized as Interior Gateway Protocols
(IGPs).
Conversely, the other category of routing protocols is designed to route in between these
autonomous systems. For instance, Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) is a routing protocol that
is used by ISPs for routing traffic over the Internet. Because the Internet comprises thousands
of networks, each under different administrative control, you need to use an Exterior Gateway
Protocol such as BGP to route in between these autonomous systems.

Distance Vector Routing Protocols
In addition to being an IGP/EGP or classful/classless, routing protocols can also fall into one
of three classes. Once again, the functionality and characteristics of the routing protocol dictate under which class it falls. The most long-standing of these classes is distance vector routing
protocols.
Distance vector routing protocols concern themselves with the direction (vector) in which the
destination lies and some means of measurement (metric) it takes to reach that destination.
Distance vector routing protocols inform their directly connected neighbors of all the connected and learned networks they know about in their routing tables. In fact, they broadcast
the contents of the entire routing table to their neighbors periodically, regardless of whether
there is a change in the network topology. When the neighbors receive that routing information, they identify and add any new networks to their routing tables and update the metric
before eventually passing it on to their neighbors. Because the routing table information is
updated before it is sent on to neighbors, downstream routers do not learn that information
first hand. For this reason, distance vector routing protocol update processing is often referred
to as “routing by rumor.” Distance vector routing protocols are discussed in greater detail in
Chapter 11, “Distance Vector Routing Protocols.”

13_0789735199_CH10.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 354

354

Chapter 10: Introduction to Routing and Routing Protocols

Link-State Routing Protocols
As the name states, link-state routing protocols advertise the state of the links in the network. In
fact, they advertise the states and metrics (cost) of all the links they know about for the entire
topology to their neighbors, as opposed to just the best routes in your routing table. This
detailed overview of the entire routing domain enables each router to calculate and make a
decision on the best route from this first-hand information, rather than listen to what its
neighbor believes is the best route. In fact, link-state routing protocols keep three tables: a
neighbor table of all discovered neighbors, a topology table of all the possible routes to reachable networks learned, and a routing table that contains the best route based upon the lowest
metric calculated from the topology table.
At first, this may sound like a lot of information to be exchanged between routers; however,
link-state routing protocols initially discover their neighbors when they first boot up and synchronize their topology tables. After the neighbor discovery and topology synchronization,
they send only periodic hello messages to let their neighbors know they are still functioning.
This is significantly different from distance vector routing protocols that periodically exchange
the entire routing table, which can contain a large amount of information, depending on the
size of the network.
In addition, link-state routing protocols react much faster when a topology change occurs in
the network. In fact, these protocols were initially created in response to the slow convergence
issues that you typically encounter with distance vector routing protocols. The downfall to
these routing protocols is the resources they consume in the router. Namely, maintaining and
processing three tables consume quite a bit of memory and processor power. Link-state routing protocols are discussed in greater detail in Chapter 12, “Link-State and Hybrid Routing
Protocols.”

Advanced Distance Vector/Hybrid Routing Protocols
They say it usually takes three tries to get something absolutely right. The truth behind this
saying is that you learn from the mistakes of the previous two attempts. Such is the case with
advanced distance vector, often referred to as hybrid or balanced hybrid routing protocols.
Because they take the best features and avoid the pitfalls of both distance vector and link-state
routing protocols, hybrid routing protocols are a more proficient breed of routing protocols
than their predecessors.

13_0789735199_CH10.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 355

355

The Routing Table Revisited

The Routing Table Revisited
Now that you have learned about the several types of routing sources including static routes
and dynamic routing protocols, it’s time to revisit the routing table and solidify how network
entries are added and used in routing decisions. To help illustrate this process, refer to the show
ip route output in Figure 10.12.
Notice that there are now several entries for directly connected networks, a static route, and
several dynamic routing protocol entries from EIGRP, RIP, IGRP, and OSPF. For each
dynamic routing protocol, there is the network and subnet mask that is being advertised by
neighbor routers, followed by two numbers in brackets separated by a forward slash (/). The
number to the left of the forward slash is the administrative distance of the routing protocol.
The number to the right of the forward slash represents the metric that is being used by the
routing protocol to determine the best path to the destination network. This information is
immediately followed by the router from which it learned this information (thus the next hop
address). The last item in the routing entry represents the interface packets must exit to reach
those networks.

EXAM ALERT
You must be adept in deciphering the output of a routing table.

FIGURE 10.12

Multi-source routing table output.

Assuming that several of the routing protocols advertised the same networks, how did these
specific network entries come to be in the routing table? The obvious answer is that the interfaces, a static route, and multiple routing protocols were configured and the resultant table
just appeared. However, to answer the question more specifically, each routing protocol determined which routes should be entered in the routing table based upon the lowest metric to
those destinations. In the chance that one or more routing sources is trying to place a network
entry in the routing table for exactly the same subnet, the routing protocol with the lowest
administrative distance is chosen because it is the most trustworthy.

13_0789735199_CH10.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 356

356

Chapter 10: Introduction to Routing and Routing Protocols

After the routing table is built, packets are routed to their destinations by examination of the
destination IP address in an IP packet and associating the network in the routing table with
that IP address. If there isn’t a match for the network lookup the packet is forwarded to its
default route. If the gateway of last resort is not set (as in Figure 10.12), the packet is dropped
and an ICMP destination unreachable message is sent back to the source to indicate that the
destination cannot be reached.

EXAM ALERT
Routing of packets is based upon the destination IP address in a packet. If the router does not have an
entry for the packet’s associated network, it sends an ICMP destination unreachable message back to
the source.

In Figure 10.12’s output, several entries for the 10.0.0.0 network are listed in the routing table.
Interestingly enough, there is an IGRP entry for the 10.0.0.0 /8 network to go out serial 0/0
and four EIGRP-learned networks for 10.1.0.0 /16, 10.2.0.0 /16, 10.3.0.0 /16, and 10.4.0.0
/16, all destined for interface serial 0/1. Because the EIGRP networks are subnets of the major
10.0.0.0 network, which interface will the router use to route a packet destined, for example,
for 10.1.0.3?
Cisco’s routing logic answers this question by using a rule called the longest match. The longest
match rule states that when a packet has multiple possible network entries to use, the more
specific subnet is used over the less specific. In other words, the longer the number of bits in
the subnet mask (thus the smaller subnet), the more chance it has of being the chosen network. In the routing table example, a packet destined for 10.1.0.3 would use the subnet with
the longest prefix (subnet mask), which is the EIGRP route for 10.1.0.0/16 exiting interface
Serial 0/1.

Routing Redistribution
You are likely to encounter in your Cisco travels certain situations in which you must run multiple routing protocols in your network. For instance, your company is in the process of merging with another company’s network, and their routers are running a different routing protocol than yours. In addition, you may have to connect your Cisco router network to a nonCisco routing infrastructure and you are using Cisco proprietary routing protocols.
In instances where you are running multiple routing protocols, it may be necessary to have
networks advertised in one routing protocol injected into the other. Unfortunately, because
routing protocols are so diverse in nature, they do not inherently interact or exchange information with each other when there are multiple routing protocols running in the network.
The transferal of network information from one routing protocol into another is a manual
configuration called redistribution.

13_0789735199_CH10.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 357

357

Routing Redistribution

The redistribution configuration is typically done at one or a couple of routers that sit on the
boundary between each routing protocol, as illustrated in Figure 10.13. These devices run
both routing protocols and must be manually configured to inject the networks learned from
one routing protocol into the next. Redistribution can occur in one of two fashions:
. One-way redistribution—Networks from an edge protocol are injected into a more

robust core routing protocol, but not the other way around. This method is the safest
way to perform redistribution.
. Two-way redistribution—Networks from each routing protocol are injected into the

other. This is the least preferred method because it is possible that suboptimal routing
or routing loops may occur because of the network design or the difference in convergence times when a topology change occurs. Figure 10.13 is an example of two-way
redistribution.

IGRP
IGRP networks
172.16.0.0
172.17.0.0
172.18.0.0

OSPF
OSPF networks
10.1.0.0
10.2.0.0
10.3.0.0

F
B

A
E

C
Routing Table
O 10.1.0.0
O 10.2.0.0
O 10.3.0.0
O 172.16.0.0
O 172.17.0.0
O 172.18.0.0

|
|
|
|
|
|

Routing Table
172.16.0.0
172.17.0.0
172.18.0.0
10.1.0.0
10.2.0.0
10.3.0.0

FIGURE 10.13

Two-way redistribution

example.

EXAM ALERT
Remember that one-way redistribution translates networks from one routing protocol in another, but
not vice versa. Two-way routing redistribution dispenses networks from each routing protocol into the
other.

13_0789735199_CH10.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 358

358

Chapter 10: Introduction to Routing and Routing Protocols

Chapter Summary
This chapter looked more closely at the operations involved in routing packets with Layer 3
devices such as routers and Layer 3 switches. You send packets from workstations on the local
network to routing devices by configuring those devices with a default gateway IP address that
matches the IP of your router. When the packet arrives at the router, it consults its routing
table to determine whether the destination IP address in the IP packet has a match for the destination’s network. If it does not have a matching entry, it looks to see whether the routing
table has a default route. If no gateway of last resort is set, it drops the packet and sends an
ICMP destination unreachable message back to the source. In instances where there are several matches for the destination network, it uses the entry that has the longest match.
The entries in the routing table can come from several routing sources. When the interface is
operational and an IP address is assigned, they show up in the routing table as connected interfaces. Manual static route entries that were manually configured show up as an “S.” Routing
protocols choose their best network paths by calculating the lowest metric for their respective
routing protocols. If multiple routing sources advertise the same subnet, the source with the
lowest administrative distance is placed in the routing table.
The routing protocols can fall into several categories, based upon the characteristics that the
protocols utilize. For instance, if a routing protocol does not advertise the subnet mask in its
routing updates, it is a classful routing protocol. Classful routing protocols require the network
design to have the same subnet mask in the design known as FLSM. In addition, these routing protocols cannot support discontiguous networks and automatically summarize network
entries to the classful boundary when crossing interfaces in other major networks. When subnet masks are including the routing advertisements, these updates are said to be classless.
Classless routing protocols support VLSM network designs, discontiguous networks, and
require manual summarization of networks.
If the routing protocol is designed to route inside an autonomous system, that routing protocol is an IGP. EGP routing protocols, on the other hand, are designed to route between
autonomous systems.
Finally, routing protocols can belong to one of the following three classifications:
. Distance Vector—The entire routing table is periodically sent to directly connected

neighbors regardless of a topology change. These routing protocols manipulate the
routing table updates before sending that information to their neighbors and are slow
to converge when a topology change occurs.

13_0789735199_CH10.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 359

359

Apply Your Knowledge
. Link-State—All possible link states are stored in an independent topology table in

which the best routes are calculated and put into the routing table. The topology table
is initially synchronized with discovered neighbors followed by frequent hello messages. These routing protocols are faster to converge than distance vector routing protocols.
. Hybrid—By using the best characteristics from both link-state and routing protocols,

these advanced routing protocols efficiently and quickly build their routing information and converge when topology changes occur.

Key Terms
. default gateway

. VLSM

. routing table

. route summarization

. connected interface

. supernet

. hop

. CIDR

. routing protocols

. autonomous system

. administrative distance

. IGP

. static routes

. EGP

. stub networks

. distance vector routing protocols

. floating routes

. link-state routing protocols

. default route

. advanced distance vector/hybrid

. classful routing protocols
. classless routing protocols
. FLSM
. discontiguous networks

routing protocols
. longest match rule
. redistribution

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 370

370

Chapter 11: Distance Vector Routing Protocols

Introduction
The last chapter looked at distance vector routing protocols from a sort of high-altitude
overview. Now this chapter brings you closer so you can see the specific protocols that belong
to this routing protocol class and explore the unique characteristics and functionality they provide. You will also learn how to configure those routing protocols to meet your administrative
needs and how to verify and troubleshoot their operations.

Distance Vector Operations
Objective:

Evaluate the characteristics of routing protocols
To recap, distance vector routing protocols are legacy routing protocols that help routing
devices determine the networks that are present in a topology. Using a routing algorithm,
known as the Bellman-Ford algorithm, distance vector routing protocols periodically broadcast routing updates consisting of the routing table to directly connected neighbors on adjacent data links, regardless of whether a change has occurred in the topology. When those
devices receive that update, they compare it with their existing routing table information. If
the distance vector metric for an entry in the routing update is greater (higher) than a current
entry in the routing table, it is discarded. If the metric is equal or less, it is added to the routing table with an updated metric to include the path to the advertising neighbor. This entry
eventually is passed to the next routing device where the process occurs over again.

NOTE
Many routing protocols, when the metrics on more than one route received by an update are equal, put
both entries in the routing table and perform load balancing (transferring packets over both alternate
paths).

Because these neighbors base their decisions on information that is not learned first hand, distance vector routing protocol operations are often referred to as routing by rumor. In addition,
each router in a distance vector routing topology has the same responsibility and function as
the next router. In other words, distance vector routers contain flat relationships with each
other.

EXAM ALERT
Distance vector routing protocols use the Bellman-Ford algorithm by broadcasting the entire routing
table to directly connected neighbors regardless of whether a topology change occurs or not. The information in the update is added and recalculated before being sent to other neighbors.

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 371

371

Distance Vector Operations

Consider the example demonstrated in Figure 11.1, which uses a classful distance vector routing protocol such as RIP. Each router contains its directly connected networks in its routing
table. Because the routing protocol is classful, the subnetted 192.168.1.0 network has a Fixed
Length Subnet Mask (FLSM) design. In addition, the routing table entries contain the metric
(hop count for this particular example) indicated by “0” because they are all connected. This
is also followed by the interface that packets will exit to reach those networks. Without the use
of static routes or routing protocols, the routers can never reach the networks that lie beyond
their neighbor routers.
Routing Table

Routing Table

C 192.168.1.4/30 0 S0/0
C 172.16.0.0/16
0 F0/0

C 192.168.1.4 /30 0 S0/0
C 192.168.1.8 /30 0 S0/1
C 192.168.1.12 /30 0 S0/2

A

B
192.168.1.8 /30

192.168.1.4 /30
172.16.0.0 /16

C
172.17.0.0 /16

192.168.1.12 /30
Routing Table

D

Routing Table
C 192.168.1.8 /30
C 172.17.0.0 /16

C 192.168.1.12 /30 0 S0/0
C 172.18.0.0 /16
0 F0/0

0 S0/0
0 F0/0

Distance vector routing initiation.

FIGURE 11.1
172.18.0.0 /16

After you configure and enable a distance vector routing protocol, it advertises the networks
in the routing table to its adjacent neighbors. For example, Router A broadcasts a routing
update containing the 192.168.1.4 network as well as the 172.16.0.0 network to Router B. As
soon as Router B receives that update, it compares the entries in its routing table with the
information learned from Router A. Router B already knows about 192.168.1.4 as a directly
connected network, so it disregards that entry because the directly connected network has a
lower administrative distance than the routing protocol. Because the 172.16.0.0 network is
new information, it adds that to its routing table with an updated metric of 1—the 172.16.0.0
network is one hop away through Router A. Similarly, when that entry is advertised to
Routers C and D, the metric is updated again to 2 because it is two hops away (through
Router B then Router A).
Likewise, Routers A, C, and D receive an update from Router B containing two new networks
that will be added to their routing table as two hops away. This process continues until each
router has an accurate depiction of all the networks in the domain, as exhibited in Figure 11.2;

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 372

372

Chapter 11: Distance Vector Routing Protocols

in other words, the network will be converged. Despite having achieved full convergence, the
routes will still advertise their routing table to their neighbors periodically even if there isn’t a
change in the topology.
Routing Table
C
C
R
R
R
R

Routing Table

192.168.1.4/30 0
172.16.0.0/16
0
192.168.1.8/30 1
192.168.1.12/30 1
172.17.0.0/16
2
172.18.0.0/16
2

S0/0
F0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0

C
C
C
R
R
R

192.168.1.4 /30 0 S0/0
192.168.1.8 /30 0 S0/1
192.168.1.12 /30 0 S0/2
172.16.0.0/16
1 S0/0
172.17.0.0/16
1 S0/1
172.18.0.0/16
1 S0/2

A

B
192.168.1.8 /30

192.168.1.4 /30

C

172.16.0.0 /16

172.17.0.0 /16
192.168.1.12 /30

Routing Table
C
C
R
R
R
R

192.168.1.12 /30
172.18.0.0 /16
192.168.1.4/30
192.168.1.8/30
172.16.0.0/16
172.17.0.0/16

D
0
0
1
1
2
2

S0/0
F0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0

Routing Table
C
C
R
R
R
R

192.168.1.8 /30
172.17.0.0 /16
192.168.1.4/30
192.168.1.12/30
172.16.0.0/16
172.18.0.0/16

172.18.0.0/16

0
0
1
1
2
2

S0/0
F0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0

FIGURE 11.2 Distance
vector routing converged
scenario.

Routing Loops
Objective:

Evaluate the characteristics of routing protocols
One of the major downfalls with routing protocols is the possible occurrence of a routing
loop. Routing loops are a stretch of the imagination these days because routing protocols have
implemented many measures to mitigate them, but it is still important to examine the plausible historic events that necessitated the need for such measures. Additionally, there are still
slim possibilities that these loops can occur regardless of the countermeasures in place.
To demonstrate a routing loop scenario, I will use the existing converged topology and introduce a link failure on Router A as illustrated in Figure 11.3. Notice the routing table in Router
A changed to reflect only the remaining connected interface left since its serial link failed.
Because the next hop to the protocol-learned networks is down, those entries are removed
too. Likewise, Router B removes the connected interface as well as the network entry for
172.16.0.0 because that link and consequently the next hop to that network is down.

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 373

373

Routing Loops

Routing Table
C 172.16.0.0/16

Routing Table

0 F0/0

C
C
R
R

192.168.1.8 /30 0 S0/1
192.168.1.12 /30 0 S0/2
172.17.0.0/16
1 S0/1
172.18.0.0/16
1 S0/2

A

B
192.168.1.8 /30

192.168.1.4 /30

C

172.16.0.0 /16

172.17.0.0 /16
192.168.1.12 /30

Routing Table
C
C
R
R
R
R

192.168.1.12 /30
172.18.0.0 /16
192.168.1.4/30
192.168.1.8/30
172.16.0.0/16
172.17.0.0/16

D
0
0
1
1
2
2

S0/0
F0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0

Routing Table
C
C
R
R
R
R

192.168.1.8 /30
172.17.0.0 /16
192.168.1.4/30
192.168.1.12/30
172.16.0.0/16
172.18.0.0/16

0
0
1
1
2
2

S0/0
F0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0

FIGURE 11.3
172.18.0.0 /16

Link failure

scenario.

Imagine in this scenario that Router D sends its periodic update to Router B before Router B
can advertise the topology change in its update. When Router B receives the update, it compares the information with its own routing table as distance vector routing protocols typically
do. The new subnet information learned in the routing update is added to the routing table.
In this unfortunate case, Router B learns (again) about the 172.16.0.0 and the 192.168.1.4 networks and believes they can be reached through Router D (despite Router D originally having
learned those routes via Router B). To boot, Router B will add its metric to get to Router D
to reach the networks that don’t even exist, as reflected in Figure 11.4.
Router B continues to update its neighbor routers periodically with the entries in its routing
table. Unfortunately, the unreachable networks appear to be moving away because the hop
count inevitably increases between the updates from Router B and Router D for infinity. All
the while, poor Router C also is fed false information about these networks from Router B and
also has to keep adjusting its metrics as shown in Figure 11.5.
With all three routers containing false information regarding those networks, any packets destined for the 172.16.0.0 and the 192.168.1.4 network are sent to Router D, who in turn, sends
them right back to Router B, and so on. These packets will continue to bounce back and forth
in the routing loop until the link becomes so saturated, traffic cannot flow between the two
routers.

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 374

374

Chapter 11: Distance Vector Routing Protocols

Routing Table
C 172.16.0.0 /16

Routing Table

0 F0/0

C
C
R
R
R
R

192.168.1.8 /30 0 S0/1
192.168.1.12 /30 0 S0/2
172.17.0.0/16
1 S0/0
172.18.0.0/16
1 S0/0
192.168.1.4 /30 2 S0/2
172.16.0.0 /16
3 S0/2

A

B
192.168.1.8 /30

192.168.1.4 /30

C

172.16.0.0 /16

172.17.0.0 /16
192.168.1.12 /30

Routing Table
C
C
R
R
R
R

Routing Table

D

192.168.1.12 /30
172.18.0.0 /16
192.168.1.4/30
192.168.1.8/30
172.16.0.0/16
172.17.0.0/16

0
0
1
1
2
2

C
C
R
R
R
R

F0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0

192.168.1.8 /30
172.17.0.0 /16
192.168.1.4/30
192.168.1.12/30
172.16.0.0/16
172.18.0.0/16

0
0
1
1
2
2

F0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0

FIGURE 11.4 Incorrect
update scenario.

172.18.0.0 /16

Routing Table
C 172.16.0.0 /16

Routing Table

0 F0/0

C
C
R
R
R
R

192.168.1.8 /30 0 S0/1
192.168.1.12 /30 0 S0/2
172.17.0.0/16
1 S0/1
172.18.0.0/16
1 S0/2
192.168.1.4/30 7 S0/2
172.16.0.0/16
8 S0/2

A

B

C

172.16.0.0 /16

172.17.0.0 /16

Routing Table
C
C
R
R
R
R

192.168.1.12 /30
172.18.0.0 /16
192.168.1.4/30
192.168.1.8/30
172.16.0.0/16
172.17.0.0/16

D
0
0
8
1
2
9

S0/0
F0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0

Routing Table
C
C
R
R
R
R

192.168.1.8 /30
172.17.0.0 /16
192.168.1.4/30
192.168.1.12/30
172.16.0.0/16
172.18.0.0/16

172.18.0.0 /16

0
0
8
1
9
2

S0/0
F0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0

FIGURE 11.5

Routing loop.

Routing Loop Mitigation
To avoid routing loops, distance vector routing protocols have implemented several countermeasures within the routing protocol operations. The following sections describe the preventative measures that have been put in place to mitigate routing loops. For obvious reasons,
the majority of these are integrated within the routing protocol and cannot be disabled.

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 375

375

Routing Loop Mitigation

EXAM ALERT
Make sure you remember and comprehend the ways distance vector routing protocols mitigate routing
loops.

Count to Infinity
As demonstrated earlier, when routers are continuously passing updates to unreachable networks between each other, the metric continues to increase forever, which is known as count to
infinity. The easiest way to mitigate this routing protocol side effect is to put a ceiling on the
maximum hop count. Using this tactic, routers can determine a network to be unreachable
after it reaches the maximum hop count allowed for that protocol. Table 11.1 lists the routing
protocols and their maximum hop count values.
TABLE 11.1

Maximum Hop Counts

Protocol

Distance Vector/Link State/Hybrid

Maximum Hop Count

RIPv1

Distance Vector

15

RIPv2

Distance Vector

15

IGRP

Distance Vector

100/255

EIGRP

Hybrid

224

OSPF

Link State

Infinite

Notice that RIP version 1 and 2 both have a maximum hop count of 15, which drastically limits the size of the allowed RIP network. IGRP has a default maximum hop count of 100; however, it can be configured to support up to 255 hops. EIGRP, because it is has some distance
vector routing protocol features, has a maximum hop count value of 224. OSPF is a link-state
routing protocol that does not use or require a maximum hop count, so it can have an infinite
number of hops.

EXAM ALERT
Be sure to remember the maximum hop counts for each protocol.

Split Horizon
Split horizon is similar to that old saying, “Don’t ride out on the horse you rode in on.” After
hearing this little tidbit, if you were to turn around and say back to me that split horizon is
similar to that old saying, “Don’t ride out on the horse you rode in on,” it would get redundant, confusing, and annoying pretty quickly. Such is the case with routing updates.

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 376

376

Chapter 11: Distance Vector Routing Protocols

As you saw earlier, you can get into trouble when routers advertise networks back to the router
from which they learned them. Split horizon fixes this dilemma by suppressing those networks
in the routing updates being sent back to the source. In other words, split horizon does not
advertise networks out the same interface as that from which it learned them.
Take the example shown in Figure 11.6. Because Router D learned about the 192.168.1.4,
192.168.1.8, 172.16.0.0, and 172.17.0.0 subnets from Router B, it does not advertise those networks back to Router B out Serial 0/0. In addition, because it heard Router B advertising the
192.168.1.12 network as well, it does not advertise that back out that interface either. Thus,
the only network that Router D will still advertise to Router B is the 172.18.0.0 network
because that subnet was not learned via serial 0/0. Now when the link fails on Router A, Router
B will not receive a misleading update about the 192.168.1.4 and the 172.16.0.0 networks
because Router D and Router C do not advertise those networks back to Router B.

NOTE
Contrary to common belief, when a router advertises a network in a routing update to its neighbors, it
adds the metric automatically as shown in Figure 11.6.

Routing Table
C
C
R
R

192.168.1.8 /30 0 S0/1
192.168.1.12 /30 0 S0/2
172.17.0.0/16
1 S0/1
172.18.0.0/16
1 S0/2

A

B
192.168.1.4 /30

172.16.0.0 /16

172.18.0.0

192.168.1.12 /30
Routing Table
C
C
R
R
R
R

192.168.1.12 /30
172.18.0.0 /16
192.168.1.4/30
192.168.1.8/30
172.16.0.0/16
172.17.0.0/16

C
192.168.1.8 /30
1

172.17.0.0 /16

D
0
0
8
1
2
2

S0/0
F0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0

FIGURE 11.6
172.18.0.0 /16

EXAM ALERT
Make sure you understand the operations involved in split horizon.

updates.

Split horizon

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 377

377

Routing Loop Mitigation

Route Poison, Poison Reverse, and Hold-Down
Timers
To avoid count to infinity routing loops, a maximum hop count is defined for a routing protocol so the metrics do not increment indefinitely in the event of a routing loop. With route
poisoning, the router that recognizes the link failure poisons the affected networks by setting
them to an infinite metric for that routing protocol. When that router sends this update to its
neighbors, they are notified of the link failure and can update their routing table accordingly.
To illustrate the route poisoning concept, refer to Figure 11.7. Notice in this topology that a
redundant route has been added between Router D and Router A. The resultant routing table
for Router D now has a route to the 172.16.0.0 network through Router A because it is only
one hop count as opposed to two hops through Router B. In addition, notice that Router D
has equidistant hops to reach network 192.168.1.4. In this case, Router D keeps both routes in
the routing table and load balances between both links for packets destined for that network.
When the link fails between Router A and Router B, Router A and Router B set the affected
networks to an infinite metric. In this example, because I am using RIP, the maximum hop
count is 15, so 16 is an infinite metric.

Routing Table
C
C
R
R
R
R
C

I will poison the
networks on the failed link
and send them to
my neighbors.

192.168.1.8 /30 0
192.168.1.12 /30 0
172.17.0.0/16
1
172.18.0.0/16
1
192.168.1.16/30 1
172.16.0.0 /16 16
192.168.1.4/30 16

A

B
192.168.1.4 /30

172.16.0.0 /16
192.168.1.16 /30
Routing Table
C
C
R
R
R
R
R
R

192.168.1.12 /30
192.168.1.16 /30
172.18.0.0 /16
172.16.0.0/16
192.168.1.8/30
172.17.0.0/16
192.168.1.4/30
192.168.1.4/30

C
192.168.1.8 /30
172.17.0.0 /16

192.168.1.12 /30
D

0
0
9
1
1
2
1
1

S0/0
S0/1
F0/0
S0/1
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/1

S0/1
S0/2
S0/1
S0/2
S0/2
S0/0
S0/0

172.18.0.0 /16

Routing Table
C
C
R
R
R
R
R

192.168.1.8 /30
172.17.0.0 /16
192.168.1.4/30
172.16.0.0/16
192.168.1.12/30
172.18.0.0/16
192.168.1.16/30

0
0
1
1
1
2
1

S0/0
F0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0
S0/0

FIGURE 11.7

poisoning.

Route

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 378

378

Chapter 11: Distance Vector Routing Protocols

When Routers C and D receive these updates from their neighbors, they can advertise the poisoned network out all their interfaces. With poison reverse, the routers override the split horizon rule and even send the update back to the source, which proves useful as an acknowledgment that those devices are aware of the topology change. At the same time, when Routers C
and D receive the poisoned update, they put that network in a “possible down” state in their
routing table as illustrated in Figure 11.8. This is the work of the hold-down timer.
Hold-down timers are activated when a router receives a poisoned update from a neighbor
indicating that a known network is now inaccessible. To ensure the router does not hastily listen to alternate routes causing yet another routing loop, the router ignores updates with a
poorer metric than the original until the hold-down timer expires. This gives the rest of the
topology ample time to react to the link change. In the event that an update is received with a
better metric than the original route entry, the router discontinues the hold-down timer and
uses that entry in its routing table.
Routing Table
C
C
R
R
R
R
C
12

192.168.1.8 /30 0
192.168.1.12 /30 0
172.17.0.0/16
1
172.18.0.0/16
1
192.168.1.16/30 1
172.16.0.0 /16 16
192.168.1.4/30 16

12

12

A

B
192.168.1.4 /30

172.16.0.0 /16
192.168.1.16 /30

C
192.168.1.8 /30
172.17.0.0 /16

192.168.1.12 /30
12

Routing Table
C
C
R
R
R
R
R

S0/1
S0/2
S0/1
S0/2
S0/2
S0/0
S0/0

192.168.1.12 /30 0
S0/0
192.168.1.16 /30 0
S0/1
172.18.0.0 /16
0
F0/0
172.16.0.0/16
1
S0/1
192.168.1.8/30
1
S0/0
172.17.0.0/16
2
S0/0
192.168.1.4/30 Possibly S0/1
Down
S0/1

D

172.18.0.0/16

Routing Table
C 192.168.1.8 /30
0
S0/0
C 172.17.0.0 /16
0
F0/0
R 192.168.1.4/30 Possibly
Down
S0/0
R 172.16.0.0/16 Possibly
Down
S0/0
R 192.168.1.12/30 1
S0/0
R 172.18.0.0/16
2
S0/0

FIGURE 11.8

Hold-down

timers.

In Figure 11.8, when Routers A and B poison their route entries and pass them to Routers C
and D, those poisoned networks are put in a possible down state and the hold-down timer is
activated. In that time, Router B may receive updates from Router D about the 172.16.0.0
network because Router D has an alternate route. However, Router D must wait for the holddown timer to expire before using the alternate path. For this reason, distance vector routing
protocols are considered the slowest routing protocols to converge.

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 379

379

RIP

Triggered Updates
One way distance vector routing protocols speed up their convergence while helping avoid
routing loops at the same time is something called flash or triggered updates. Because one of the
contributing causes of routing loops is the lack of update information reaching all devices
quickly enough, triggered updates enable the router to send the update immediately after a
link fails, as opposed to waiting for its periodic update time.

Invalid/Dead Timers
In place of a link failure, what do you suppose would happen if Router A had some operational
failures or you removed or changed the routing protocol configuration or networks? Other
routers in the domain would not be aware of this change because it isn’t a link failure that they
can detect and react to. To ensure that these networks are not circulating indefinitely in a routing system, routing protocols have invalid, or dead, timers. If a router stops receiving updates
from a router after a set amount of time, that router is considered to be dead and the networks
that learned from that router are invalid. Likewise, if a particular network stops advertising
with a routing protocol, that entry becomes invalid after the dead timer ages out. This timer
is reset every time an update is received from a neighbor for each network in the routing table.
When the timer expires, the router poisons the route and advertises that topology change to
its neighbors.

TIP
You can clear out aged entries in the routing table quickly by using the clear ip route command followed by the network you want to remove.

RIP
The first distance vector routing protocol that is discussed here is coincidentally one of the
oldest routing protocols that is still used today. Circa 1988, Routing Information Protocol
(RIP) for IP was defined in RFC 1058; however, its roots stem back to the 1970s at Xerox
Corporation’s Palo Alto Research Center. The following sections look at the characteristics
and configurations involved with this resolute routing protocol.

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 380

380

Chapter 11: Distance Vector Routing Protocols

RIP Characteristics
Objective:

Select an appropriate routing protocol based on user requirements
RIP is a fairly simple routing protocol in both characteristics and implementation. You already
know that RIP uses hop count as its only metric, in which it can support up to 15 as a maximum. In instances where the metric is identical (for example, equal hop count) for a subnet, it
load balances up to six equal paths (four by default). Like other distance vector routing protocols, RIP sends the contents of its routing table to its directly connected neighbors, regardless
of whether there is a change or not in the topology. Particularly, RIP’s update interval is every
30 seconds and its invalid timer is for 180 seconds. Thus, RIP broadcasts its routing table every
30 seconds and considers a neighbor or a network to be dead after six missed updates.
Because RIP does not advertise subnet masks in its routing updates, it is also a classful routing
protocol. Recall that this requires every subnet of a major network to have the same (fixed
length) subnet masks. In addition, RIP automatically summarizes subnetted networks to their
default classful boundaries when sending the update over a different major network which, in
turn, nullifies any support for a discontiguous network design.
As with many routing protocols, RIP requires manual redistribution if you want to advertise
networks from a different routing source other than connected interfaces and other RIPlearned networks. One key exception to this is a default route. If you configure a static default
route in a router that is running RIP, it automatically redistributes that default route in its routing updates to its neighbors without any additional configuration. The neighbors set that
router as their gateway of last resort, assuming a static default route is not configured with a
lower administrative distance. The routing table subsequently displays the learned 0.0.0.0/0
subnet as an RIP-learned network.

EXAM ALERT
Remember the characteristics of RIP for the exam.

RIP Configuration
Objective:

Configure routing protocols, given user requirements
The configuration for RIP is seamless as long as you remember these two simple rules:
. Advertise only your directly connected networks.
. Advertise only the classful network.

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 381

381

RIP

The first rule is imperative to keep in mind when configuring routing protocols. Remember
that the point of the routing protocols is to advertise their known networks to each other so
they can build their routing tables. With that being said, do not confuse the configuration of
routing protocols with static routes. You do not specify a destination network with routing
protocols as you would a static route. Instead, you specify local networks and let the routing
protocols advertise them to each other.
Because RIP is a classful routing protocol, the second rule is self-explanatory. Regardless of
whether you subnetted major networks into smaller subnets, you have to specify only the subnet to its classful boundary. In other words, you specify the network portion of the IP address
and use zeros for the host bits. To recap, the classful boundaries are listed in Table 11.2, in
which N represents the network and H represents the host.

EXAM ALERT
It is imperative to know and practice the two rules for configuring RIP.

TABLE 11.2

Classful Network Boundaries

Class

First Octet

Network

A

1–126

N.H.H.H

B

128–191

N.N.H.H

C

192–223

N.N.N.H

To configure RIP and advertise the directly connected classful networks, you must enter the
configuration mode for routing protocols, using the router keyword in Global Configuration
followed by the routing protocol you want to configure. After you are in the routing
protocol configuration mode (signified by the (config-router)# prompt), you specify the
directly connected classful networks by using the network command. If you need to remove
a specific network from being advertised, you need to enter the RIP routing process again and
type no followed by the keyword network and the network number you want to remove.
Using Figure 11.9 as an example, Routers A, C, and D each have two directly connected networks while Router B has three. To configure RIP to advertise the routing protocols, the configuration for Router A would look like the following:
RouterA(config)#router rip
RouterA(config-router)#network 172.16.0.0
RouterA(config-router)#network 192.168.1.0

TIP
If you accidentally configure a network at the incorrect classful boundary, the IOS configuration automatically changes your configuration statement(s) to reflect the classful network.

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 382

382

Chapter 11: Distance Vector Routing Protocols

A

B
192.168.1.8 /30

192.168.1.4 /30
172.16.0.0 /16

C
172.17.0.0 /16

192.168.1.12 /30

D

FIGURE 11.9
172.18.0.0 /16

RIP configura-

tion scenario.

EXAM ALERT
Be prepared to configure a routing protocol given a network topology. Even though there is the IOS
support to autocorrect your mistakes when entering the networks as mentioned in the preceding Tip,
do not rely on the exam to allow that as a correct answer.

Because Router A has the 172.16.0.0 network and the 192.168.1.4 network attached to it, the
classful networks that are advertised are 172.16.0.0 because it is a Class B, and 192.168.1.0
because that network is a Class C. You do not need to include any other network statements
because the routers will advertise each other’s networks. After you define the networks with
the network command, RIP begins to advertise and listen for updates on those interfaces that
are contained in that classful network. For instance, if you did not configure the network
192.168.1.0 statement in Router A, you would never be able to send and receive updates on
the serial interface, which would entail that Router B would never learn of the 172.16.0.0 network and Router A would never learn of the other networks in the topology.

EXAM ALERT
Keep in mind that the routing protocol does not listen to or learn from advertisements on an interface
unless you include their respective networks in the routing protocol process with the network command.

Router B has three directly connected 192.168.1.x networks, so how many statements do you
think you must configure for Router B to participate in RIP updates? Despite having three networks, you must advertise the classful networks in the RIP configuration; thus, you require only
one statement for the 192.168.1.0 network that will, in essence, encompass all three subnets. To
see the configurations for each router in this topology, direct your attention to Figure 11.10.

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 383

383

RIP

RouterA(config)#router rip
RouterA(config-router)#network 172.16.0.0
RouterA(config-router)#network 192.168.1.0

RouterB(config)#router rip
RouterB(config-router)#network 192.168.1.0

A

B
192.168.1.8 /30

192.168.1.4 /30
172.16.0.0 /16

C
172.17.0.0 /16

RouterC(config)#router rip
RouterC(config-router)#network 172.17.0.0
RouterC(config-router)#network 192.168.1.0

192.168.1.12 /30

RouterD(config)#router rip
RouterD(config-router)#network 172.18.0.0
RouterD(config-router)#network 192.168.1.0

D

FIGURE 11.10
172.18.0.0 /16

Completed RIP configuration scenario.

If you want to change the number of allowed equal paths to load balance with RIP, you can use
the maximum-paths command in the routing process. For example, if you wanted to change
the maximum paths to 6 equal paths, the configuration would look like the following:
RouterA(config)#router rip
RouterA(config-router)#maximum-paths 6

TIP
To disable load balancing over multiple equal paths, set the maximum paths to 1.

RIPv2 Characteristics
Objective:

Select an appropriate routing protocol based on user requirements
In an attempt to keep up with modern needs from a routing protocol, RIP version 2 was created in 1994 to address many of the shortcomings of its predecessor. Many of the characteristics are similar to RIPv1; nonetheless, RIPv2 had some significant improvements:
. Multicast Updates—Rather than broadcast its routing updates, RIPv2 uses a reserved

multicast address of 224.0.0.9 to communicate with other RIPv2 neighbors. By using a
multicast address, it does not waste the processing resources of non-RIP devices
because only RIPv2 devices process messages to that address.

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 384

384

Chapter 11: Distance Vector Routing Protocols
. Classful or Classless Support—RIPv2 is classful by default, but can be configured as

a classless routing protocol, which allows for subnet masks to be sent in the routing
updates. The implication of this enhancement entails that RIPv2 can support VLSM
and discontiguous network designs.
. Authenticated Updates—To ensure the origin of the routing update and protect from

attackers spoofing routing updates, RIPv2 allows update authentication in which the
passwords must match in all routers to validate the routing update.

EXAM ALERT
Be sure to remember the enhancements that RIPv2 holds over RIPv1.

RIPv2 Configuration
Objective:

Configure routing protocols given user requirements
The configuration for RIPv2 is practically identical to RIPv1. In other words, you still must
enter the RIP routing process with the router rip command and still must advertise the
directly connected classful networks. To enable RIPv2, you have to type the command,
version 2, in the routing process as follows:
RouterA(config)#router rip
RouterA(config-router)#version 2
RouterA(config-router)#network 172.16.0.0
RouterA(config-router)#network 192.168.1.0

By default, RIPv2 is classful. To configure this enhanced routing protocol to support classless
routing updates, the only entry you need to configure is the no auto-summary command in
the routing process as shown here:
RouterA(config)#router rip
RouterA(config-router)#no auto-summary

RIP Verification
Objective:

Troubleshoot routing protocols
To verify RIP, you can use an assortment of show commands, each equally contributing to a
wealth of information about the RIP routing protocol you configured. For instance, show

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 385

385

RIP
running-config is an easy pick to show your configuration for RIP and the networks that you
have configured. It is also a useful starting point if you are troubleshooting an existing implementation of RIP and suspect missing or misconfigured network statements.

To ensure that RIP updates are being received from neighbors, show ip route proves the
network configuration is functioning because you will see RIP entries appear in the routing
table as follows:
RouterA#show ip route
Codes: C - connected, S - static, I - IGRP, R - RIP, M - mobile, B - BGP
D - EIGRP, EX - EIGRP external, O - OSPF, IA - OSPF inter area
N1 - OSPF NSSA external type 1, N2 - OSPF NSSA external type 2
E1 - OSPF external type 1, E2 - OSPF external type 2, E - EGP
i - IS-IS, L1 - IS-IS level-1, L2 - IS-IS level-2, * - candidate default
U - per-user static route, o - ODR, P - periodic downloaded static route
T - traffic engineered route
Gateway of last resort is not set
R
C
R
R
R
C

172.17.0.0/16 [120/1] via 192.168.1.6, Serial0/0
172.16.0.0/16 is directly connected, FastEthernet0/0
172.18.0.0/16 [120/1] via 192.168.1.6, Serial0/0
192.168.1.0/30 is subnetted, 3 subnets
192.168.1.8 [120/1] via 192.168.1.6, Serial0/0
192.168.1.12 [120/1] via 192.168.1.6, Serial0/0
192.168.1.4 is directly connected, Serial0/0

The RIP entries are identified in the routing table with the letter R followed by the default
administrative distance and the hop count in brackets. The IP 192.168.1.6 is the next-hop
address to reach those networks out of Serial 0/0.
Finally, to see detailed information regarding all the IP routing protocols configured on a routing
device, use the show ip protocols to see a plethora of information, as illustrated in Figure 11.11.
In this output, you can see the timers involved with the routing protocol, including the update
interval of 30 seconds and the invalid and hold-down timers. In addition, you can see which networks you are routing. This is useful for administrators who do not have access to Privileged
EXEC (therefore are not able to use the show running-config command) to verify which networks are being advertised.

FIGURE 11.11

show ip route RIP entries.

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 386

386

Chapter 11: Distance Vector Routing Protocols

Troubleshooting RIP
Troubleshooting routing protocols always begins with verification of the routing configuration
and status by using the show commands discussed in the last section. You can also test whether
you have IP connectivity by pinging or you can test the route packets will take by using the
traceroute command. However, if you need to get into the trenches, so to speak, and verify
the updates as they are being sent and received, you need to use real-time troubleshooting
tools entailing the debug command.

TIP
If you forget which debug processes you have running, you can issue the show debug command to list
all the processes you are currently debugging.

To actively see real-time updates as they are being sent and received for RIP, use the Privileged
EXEC command, debug ip rip, as demonstrated in the three sections in Figure 11.12.
In the first section, labeled 1, the router is receiving an update from a neighbor with the IP
address 192.168.1.6. If there are any new subnets learned from this update, they ultimately are
placed in the routing table, using 192.168.1.6 as the next-hop address and Serial 0/0 as the
exiting interface because that is where this information was learned. Notice in this section that
there are no subnet masks received in the update, solidifying that fact that you are running a
classful routing protocol, RIPv1.

FIGURE 11.12

debug ip rip output.

Section 2 is the local router broadcasting (255.255.255.255) an update out its Fast Ethernet
0/0 interface. Most importantly, notice how the router increments the hop count by 1 before
sending it out to any neighbors on its LAN. Also, take note of the 192.168.1.0 entry that is
being advertised out this interface. Because the interface has an IP address of 172.16.0.1,
which is not in the same major network, this router automatically summarized its subnetted
entries to 192.168.1.0.

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 387

387

RIP

The information shown in section 3 is proof that split horizon is enabled and working on this
router. This is evident because the router does not send any entries that it received in the first
section of Figure 11.12. Recall that split horizon inhibits a router from advertising networks
back out the interface from which it received that information. Because the 192.168.1.8,
192.168.1.12, 172.17.0.0, and 172.18.0.0 networks were received in the router’s Serial 0/0
interface, they cannot be sent back out that interface.

EXAM ALERT
Be sure you are able to decipher the output of a debug ip rip command.
IGRP
Shortly after RIPv1 was standardized, Cisco created its own proprietary distance vector routing protocol that addressed many of the shortcomings and oversimplifications with RIP.
Introduced in the mid-1980s, Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (IGRP) was created by Cisco
in the hopes that despite being proprietary, it would rapidly be accepted and become the de
facto routing protocol used in networks. The following sections expound on the improved features that IGRP offers over RIP.

IGRP Characteristics
Objective:

Select an appropriate routing protocol based on user requirements
One of the most notable improvements that IGRP offers over RIP is the use of a robust composite metric. Specifically, IGRP uses bandwidth and delay by default as its metric to determine the best routing path to a destination. In addition, you can configure IGRP to include

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 389

389

IGRP

additional metrics such as reliability, load, and MTU. By using this more robust composite
metric (as opposed to using hop count), routers can accurately determine the best path to take
to a destination. Speaking of hop count, IGRP can support larger networks than RIP because
its maximum hop count is 100 by default, and can be configured up to 255.

EXAM ALERT
Remember that IGRP uses bandwidth and delay by default, but can be configured to include reliability,
load, and MTU for its composite metric.

For example, given the example in Figure 11.14, RIP would take the T1 link as the best route
to reach 172.17.0.0 because it has the lowest number of hops. IGRP, on the other hand, considers the bandwidth of the links and determines that the bottom path is the optimal route
because the ethernet links combined are still faster than a single TI of 1.54Mbps.
Routing Table
I 172.17.0.0 F0.0

T1
A

S0/0
F0/0

F

100 Mbps

10 Mbps

172.17.0.0/16

FIGURE 11.14
C

IGRP composite met-

ric in action.

IGRP’s update interval is 90 seconds as compared to RIP’s 30 seconds. This decreases the
amount of utilization and bandwidth required to send these updates because they do not occur
as frequently as RIP. In the rare case that a Cisco router should fail, or more likely its neighbor routers stop advertising a network, IGRP waits 270 seconds before considering the network to be invalid. When a router wants to poison the route, it sets the metric to IGRP’s infinite metric value of 4,294,967,295.
As you will see, because IGRP metrics can vary considerably depending on the bandwidth and
delay of the links to the destination, IGRP also can support load balancing up to six unequal
paths (as opposed to RIP’s equal paths). The only downfall for IGRP, unfortunately, is that
because of its proprietary nature, IGRP must be implemented in an all-Cisco network.

TIP
IGRP is no longer supported in version 12.3.

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 390

390

Chapter 11: Distance Vector Routing Protocols

IGRP Configuration
Objective:

Configure routing protocols given user requirements
IGRP must follow the same configuration guidelines as RIPv1. Namely, it must advertise the
directly connected networks; and because IGRP is also classful, the networks configured must
be at a default classful boundary. A key element that differs in the RIP configuration is the
inclusion of an autonomous system (AS) number in the routing process configuration. This AS
number is an arbitrary number between 1 and 65535 that you or your network administrator
assigns to your network. It is imperative that you make this number match in all your router
configurations or the routers will ignore the routing updates.

EXAM ALERT
Be sure that the autonomous system number must match in every router that you configure or else the
updates will be ignored.

Figure 11.15 displays an example of an IGRP topology using the chosen autonomous system
number 100. To configure Router A, the configuration is similar to the RIP configuration
except that you must specify the AS number after the router igrp command, as illustrated
here:
RouterA(config)#router igrp 100
RouterA(config-router)#network 172.16.0.0
RouterA(config-router)#network 192.168.100.0

Autonomous System
100

A

B
192.168.1.8 /30

192.168.1.4 /30
172.16.0.0 /16

C
172.17.0.0 /16

192.168.1.12 /30
D

172.18.0.0 /16

FIGURE 11.15 IGRP
configuration scenario.

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 391

391

IGRP

In Routers B, C, and D, the configuration must have the same autonomous system number or
else the updates from neighbor routers are ignored.

The Bandwidth Bandwagon
Because IGRP utilizes bandwidth as one of its metrics in determining the best path to a destination, it is
imperative that the routers accurately depict the bandwidth that is currently on their interfaces. Because
the ethernet and Fast Ethernet interfaces automatically define the bandwidth of their interfaces, you do
not have to worry about any additional configurations on the LAN interfaces.
WAN interfaces, such as serial, asynchronous serial, and HSSI, can have varying speeds depending on
the WAN circuits to which they are connected. For instance, it is possible to have a 64Kbps link connected to one serial interface and T1 connected to another. By default, the Cisco IOS automatically assumes
that any circuit connected to a serial interface is T1 (1544Kbps) speed, so how are you to tell the IGRP of
a link speed that is less than T1? The answer is by using the bandwidth interface command followed
by the bandwidth in Kbps as discussed in Chapter 7, “Basic Cisco Configurations.” By specifying the
actual bandwidth on the interface, IGRP incorporates that information in its metrics and can make accurate routing decisions based upon the proper speeds of the links.

Unequal Path Load Balancing
One of the outstanding features of IGRP is its capability to load balance up to six unequal
paths (four by default). To achieve this remarkable feat, you must configure a multiplier based
upon the lowest composite metric to a destination. The command for this multiplier is the
variance command, which is configured in the IGRP routing process.
For instance, Figure 11.16 illustrates a simplified topology with the composite metrics to reach
172.17.0.0. In its default state, IGRP would choose the router through Router B because that
has the lowest cumulative composite metric to reach the destination network. Because the path
through B and C has a metric of 80, and the path through D and E has a metric of 160, you
can specify a variance of 2, which acts as a multiplier of the lowest metric (80 in this case). The
configuration for this would look like the following:
RouterA(config)#router igrp 100
RouterA(config-router)#variance 2

20

60
B

A

C

10

10
172.17.0.0/16
D

90

E

Unequal path load
balancing with variance command.
FIGURE 11.16

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 392

392

Chapter 11: Distance Vector Routing Protocols

TIP
The variance multiplier does not have to be an exact multiplication. If the multiplied value happens to go
over the highest composite metric to a destination, it still load balances over any path that is included in
the range.

IP Default-Network
Unlike RIP, IGRP does not automatically redistribute default routes to downstream neighbors in its routing updates. As an alternative, you can configure a default network that informs
downstream neighbors to reach the network specified as a gateway of last resort. This does
not, however, configure a default route or a gateway of last resort in the router that it is configured.
The syntax to configure a default network is the ip default-network command in global
configuration. The network that you specify must already be a subnet that is present in the
routing table. Downstream neighbors will set their network as their gateway of last resort and
determine the fastest way to reach it via their routing protocol. For example, if you wanted to
use the 192.168.1.0 network in your routing table as a gateway of last resort for downstream
neighbors receiving your IGRP updates, the configuration would resemble the following:
RouterA(config)#ip default-network 192.168.1.0

IGRP Verification
Objective:

Troubleshoot routing protocols
The commands used to verify the RIP configuration (show running-config, show ip route,
and show ip protocols) are exactly the same commands to use when verifying IGRP. For
instance, the following is the output of the show ip route command with IGRP entries present in the routing table:
RouterA#show ip route
Codes: C - connected, S - static, I - IGRP, R - RIP, M - mobile, B - BGP
D - EIGRP, EX - EIGRP external, O - OSPF, IA - OSPF inter area
N1 - OSPF NSSA external type 1, N2 - OSPF NSSA external type 2
E1 - OSPF external type 1, E2 - OSPF external type 2, E - EGP
i - IS-IS, L1 - IS-IS level-1, L2 - IS-IS level-2, * - candidate default
U - per-user static route, o - ODR, P - periodic downloaded static route
T - traffic engineered route

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 393

393

IGRP
Gateway of last resort is not set
I
C
I
I
I
C

172.17.0.0/16 [100/16576] via 192.168.1.6, Serial0/0
172.16.0.0/16 is directly connected, FastEthernet0/0
172.18.0.0/16 [100/16576] via 192.168.1.6, Serial0/0
192.168.1.0/30 is subnetted, 3 subnets
192.168.1.8 [100/8976] via 192.168.1.6, Serial0/0
192.168.1.12 [100/8976] via 192.168.1.6, Serial0/0
192.168.1.4 is directly connected, Serial0/0

This time, the IGRP routes appear with the letter I to designate networks that were learned
via neighbor routers using IGRP. Once again, the numbers in the brackets signify the administrative distance (100 for IGRP), followed by IGRP’s composite bandwidth and delay metric
to reach the destinations.
The show ip protocols once again display the timers and the networks that are being advertised by the routing protocol, as shown in Figure 11.17. In addition, the output of this
command also displays the K weight values that determine which metrics are used in the
calculation of the best path (which equals out to bandwidth + delay by default because the
other K values are 0). The show ip protocols for IGRP also display the default values for
the maximum hop count of IGRP (100) and the variance multiplier (1 = no unequal load
balancing).

FIGURE 11.17

show ip protocols IGRP

output.

Troubleshooting IGRP
Once again, your troubleshooting should begin with the show commands described in the previous section, as well as with the ping and traceroute commands. In addition, IGRP has a set
of debug commands that can be used to display the routing information to your management
session. As with all debugging commands, please use these commands with extreme caution
and verify your router’s current utilization with the show processes command before you
debug routing updates.
The debug ip igrp transactions command is similar to the output of the debug ip rip
command in that it shows a detail of all the routing updates begin sent and received. Once
again, you can see in Figure 11.18 that IGRP is classful because there are no subnet masks

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 394

394

Chapter 11: Distance Vector Routing Protocols

contained in the updates. In addition, split horizon is suppressing the router from advertising
the networks learned from the neighbor router back out of serial 0/0.

FIGURE 11.18 debug ip igrp
transactions output.

If the output from your show processes command indicates that your router is highly utilized, you might want to use the debug ip igrp events command instead. This command
gives only a summary of the updates that are being sent and received, such as those shown in
Figure 11.19, so it is not as taxing for the router to display.

FIGURE 11.19

output.

debug ip igrp events

14_0789735199_CH11.qxd

11/30/05

12:24 PM

Page 395

395

Chapter Summary

Chapter Summary
This chapter discussed the two main distance vector routing protocols, RIP and IGRP. Both
routing protocols are susceptible to routing loops and have several countermeasures in place
to help mitigate these anomalies. For instance, both routing protocols have a maximum hop
count to ensure that routing loops do not cause routers to increment the metric for infinity,
and define a reasonable limit on the size of the network to which the routing protocol can
scale. Split horizon contributes in the mitigation of routing loops by ensuring that routers do
not advertise networks out the same interface as that on which those networks were learned.
When a link fails, distance vector routing protocols poison the affected routes by setting them
to an infinite metric and immediately shoot them out as a flash or triggered update. The split
horizon rule is overridden in this instance to send a notice that the link is possibly down. The
link remains in that state (unless it receives an update that has a better metric than the original network entry) until the hold-down timer expires. After the hold-down timer lapses, the
router can use routes with less favorable metrics than the original.
Table 11.3 is a summary of the characteristics of both versions of RIP and IGRP.
TABLE 11.3

RIP and IGRP Comparison
RIPv1

RIPv2

IGRP

Classful/Classless

Classful

Both

Classful

Algorithm

Bellman-Ford

Bellman-Ford

Bellman-Ford

Metric

Hops

Hops

Composite (Bandwidth+Delay)

Maximum Hop Count

15

15

100/255

Infinite Metric

16

16

4,294,967,295

Update/Invalid

30/180

30/180

90/270

Updates

Broadcast

Multicast (224.0.0.9)

Broadcast

Load Balancing

Equal Paths

Equal Paths

Unequal Paths

To configure RIP and IGRP, you must enter the routing process first with the router keyword
in Global Configuration mode followed by the routing protocol. In the case of IGRP, you must
also specify an autonomous system number that must match in all routers under your administrative control. After you are in the routing process, you advertise the networks with the
network command followed by the directly connected classful networks.
To verify the routing process for RIP and IGRP, you can use the show ip route command to
view the IP routing table and examine whether networks have been learned from the routing
protocol. In addition, show ip protocols displays the networks you are advertising in the
local router, as well as the timers for each IP routing protocol.
When performing real-time troubleshooting, you can use the debug ip rip command for
RIP and debug ip igrp transactions or debug ip igrp events for IGRP. Be sure that

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 408

408

Chapter 12: Link-State and Hybrid Routing Protocols

Introduction
Distance vector routing protocols are ideal for small networks in which there are routers with
slow processing power and limited memory resources. Today’s enterprises require significantly larger networks that can scale way beyond the limits of distance vector routing protocols. As
the networks grow larger, routing protocols must also be able to react to topology changes
faster to ensure that all devices are aware of a change in a reasonable amount of time. Linkstate and balanced hybrid/advanced distance vector routing protocols were designed to overcome the scalability and convergence speed restrictions that hindered distance-vector routing
protocols. This chapter looks at how the innovators of these two classes of routing protocols,
OSPF and EIGRP, achieve these feats and shows you how to implement and customize them
in your configurations.

Link-State Operations
Objective:

Evaluate the characteristics of routing protocols
Recall that distance vector routing protocols used the Bellman-Ford algorithm, which entailed
routing devices advertising directly connected networks that are sent to any neighbor listening on adjacent segments. When they received the updates, they would manipulate their routing tables and advertise the subsequent information to their directly connected neighbors. One
of the major downfalls with this algorithm is that the updates contain second-hand information from other routers and in which the best pathway is chosen according to another device’s
perception of the network. This would be similar to following directions to a destination based
upon your friend’s sister’s boyfriend’s recollection of getting to that destination over his preferred roads and highways.
Link-state routing protocols use the Dijkstra Shortest Path First (SPF) algorithm, which is a
complex and processor-intensive mathematical calculation in determining optimal paths. How
this differs from distance vector routing algorithms is that the calculations are actually done
based upon all possible routes to a destination that link-state routing protocols store in their
topology tables. The best route that is chosen from the topology table for any given network
is placed in the router’s routing table.
Routers receive this topology information from the neighbors they discovered by listening for
Link-State Advertisements (LSAs) from other routers. In fact, link-state routing protocols
establish a relationship with these neighbors and track them in yet another table, called the
neighbor table, before even sending update information.

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 409

409

Link-State Operations

EXAM ALERT
Remember link-state routing protocols have to maintain three tables: the topology table, the neighbor
table (sometimes referred to as an adjacency table), and the routing table.

The updates that are exchanged between the routers not only contain the subnets that their
neighbors know about, but all information about their link-states, including the status of the
links and the metrics for each subnet they are aware of. Knowing all the possible links and their
associated metrics to reach them, the router can make first-hand decisions about which is the
best path for it to take to reach each destination. To reuse the analogy, now you would learn
about the all possible paths to the destination from your friend, your friend’s sister, her
boyfriend, MapQuest, and so on, and base your decision on the best path, using all that information from your point of reference.
After a router sends that topology information to its neighbors, it does not need to continuously send them that information over and over again as distance vector routing protocols
require. Instead, link-state routing protocols send small hello LSAs every so often just to
ensure to neighbors that the router is still alive and ticking.
In the event of a topology change, a link-state update (LSU) is flooded to all routers, immediately alerting them of the topology change. In fact, link-state routers that receive this topology change notification flood the link-state update to their neighbors before processing and
recalculating the change to update their own routing tables with the new information. Thus,
there is no need for loop prevention measures as you witnessed with distance vector routing
protocols because link-state routing protocols propagate this information and converge exponentially faster.
Because link-state routing protocols can scale to such large sizes, they can segment the routing domain into smaller systems, known as areas, so devices do not have to maintain an
excessive amount of information in their topology tables. What’s more, the routers that send
information between these divisions summarize the subnets located inside the area connected
to them to the rest of the autonomous system. By minimizing the routing update traffic and
overhead, you can speed up convergence and confine instability to a single area. Because the
routers that perform this route summarization have a special function over the rest of the
routers in the autonomous system, link-state routing protocols are hierarchical by design.

EXAM ALERT
Know that areas are used in link-state routing protocols to speed up convergence and confine instability by route summarization.

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 410

410

Chapter 12: Link-State and Hybrid Routing Protocols

OSPF
Objective:

Select an appropriate routing protocol based on user requirements
The most widely used link-state routing protocol today is an IETF standard routing protocol
called Open Shortest Path First (OSPF). Developed in 1988, this routing protocol was created to overcome the limitations that RIP presented for large-scale networks. The following
sections look at the fundamentals of OSPF and show you how to apply them in your configuration.

OSPF Characteristics
OSPF is unique among the routing protocols that are discussed in this book. This is true from
its operations all the way down to the configuration. Notably, one of the more intriguing
aspects of this routing protocol is that it is completely classless. With the subnet masks accompanying the networks in the routing updates, routers are aware of all the individual subnets
that exist. The upside to this knowledge is that you do not have to concern yourself overly with
discontiguous network designs and you can implement VLSM addressing throughout the
topology. The unfortunate downside of knowing all the subnets is that the topology database
can grow to be quite large, depending on the size of the autonomous system. Not only does
this knowledge exhaust the memory resources in your routers, but any change in the links
associated with those subnets causes a flood of updates, consequently causing each router to
run the SPF algorithm again. If your autonomous system consists of 1000 routers, each one
has to expend the processing resources to flood the update and rerun its algorithmic calculations based upon the residual topology. If the link is continuously going up and then down
(known as flapping), each of the 1000 routers continually floods updates and reruns its Dijkstra
SPF algorithm, which could exhaust a router’s resources and detrimentally affect the router’s
capacity to function.

OSPF Areas
OSPF mitigates the need for excessive topology databases and update traffic overhead by segmenting an OSPF autonomous system into smaller areas. As mentioned before, routers that
transmit information from one area to another can be configured to summarize the subnets
being advertised to other areas. In this situation, routers in other areas need to keep only summarized entries in their topology table, minimizing the amount of memory required. In the
event that a link goes down within the area, only devices within that area need to be notified
because the rest of the OSPF autonomous system is aware of only the summarized route. With
that update confined within that area, other routers in different areas do not receive an update
and do not have to flood and recalculate the information in the update.

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 411

411

OSPF

For instance, Figure 12.1 demonstrates an OSPF autonomous system in which you have created three areas. Routers C and E have the responsibility of summarizing the subnets in their
areas to the rest of the OSPF autonomous system. This hierarchy in routing ensures that any
link failure that occurs in the areas they are summarizing does not go beyond those routers.
Because these hierarchical routers are sitting on the border between two areas, they are called
Area Border Routers (ABRs).

OSPF
Autonomous System

/23
68.2.0
192.1

/23

8.100.0

192.16

D

A

F

192.168.3.0/24

192.168.101.0/24
C

B
192.168.2.0/24
Area 1

E

Area 0

G
192.168.100.0/24
Area 51

FIGURE 12.1

OSPF AS with
areas.

Backbone Area
Notice that at the center of the OSPF autonomous system in Figure 12.1 is Area 0, to which
Area 1 and Area 51 are attached. This is not by coincidence, but rather by design. Area 0, also
known as the backbone area, is an essential part of an OSPF design because as the name states,
this is the area in which traffic from one area must transit to reach another area. If your network design requires only a single area, that area must be Area 0.
Any area that is created must somehow be connected to the backbone area. Because this area
is truly an information highway interconnecting all other areas, it typically consists of robust
routers called backbone routers that are either completely inside or have an interface that connects to Area 0. Traffic originating in one area is sent to the backbone ABR for that area,
which in turn ultimately passes the traffic to the destination backbone ABR and finally to the
destination router inside the remote area. Because these links inside the backbone carry excessive traffic, the backbone routers are typically interconnected with high-speed interlinks such
as Fast or Gigabit Ethernet.

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 412

412

Chapter 12: Link-State and Hybrid Routing Protocols

EXAM ALERT
Remember that Area 0 is also commonly known as the backbone area. All areas that are created must
connect back to Area 0.

Stub Area
Recall that the term stub in networking refers to networks that contain a single pathway in or
out. Accordingly, a stub area is an area that contains only one pathway in or out of that area.
The IETF created this concept of a stub area as a measure to decrease the topology database
even further for routers that are inside a stub area.

NOTE
Because the backbone area is a transit area that interconnects other areas, it can never be configured as a
stub.

Once again, the ABR router takes the credit for this reduction in OSPF overhead, as shown
in Figure 12.2. If the area is configured on all routers inside that area as a stub area, the ABR
replaces all the networks it learns from the rest of the OSPF autonomous system with a default
route and advertises that to the routers inside the stub area. This makes logical sense because
the routers inside the stub area are using that ABR as a gateway of last resort to leave their
area.

0
0/
0.
0.

0.

D

A
192.168.3.0/24

Area 0

ABR E

192.168.2.0/24

Area 1
Stub Area

0.
0.

B

0.

0/

0

ABR C

I know about multiple
networks from Area 0
and Area 51, but because
my area is a stub area, I
will send a default route.
FIGURE 12.2

Stub area.

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 413

413

OSPF

OSPF Metrics
When OSPF routers run the Dijkstra algorithm to calculate the best route to reach destination subnets, they use the lowest cumulative cost to reach that network. The path cost is cal8
culated by taking 10 , divided by the bandwidth in bps. Table 12.1 lists some of the common
path costs associated with their respective bandwidths.
TABLE 12.1

Cost Values Based on Bandwidth

Bandwidth

OSPF Cost

56Kbps

1785

64Kbps

1562

T1 (1.544Mbps)

64

Ethernet (10Mbps)

10

Fast Ethernet (100Mbps)

1

Gigabit Ethernet (1000Mbps)

1

EXAM ALERT
Be prepared to calculate the cost for any given link speed.

Notice that when you reach and exceed Fast Ethernet speeds of 100Mbps, the cost is still 1.
For that reason, you can configure OSPF to use a different reference for the bandwidth that
8
is higher than 10 to account for links of that magnitude.

Router ID
Unlike most routing protocols, OSPF routers identify each other with something known as a
router ID. The router ID is a 32-bit unique number in which the router is known to the OSPF
autonomous system. This ID is determined in the following order:
1. Highest IP address assigned to an active logical interface at the start of the OSPF

process.
2. If no logical interface is present, the highest IP address of an active physical interface

at the start of the OSPF process.

NOTE
When I say “highest IP address,” I am talking about the numerical value of the IP address, not the class of
the IP address.

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 414

414

Chapter 12: Link-State and Hybrid Routing Protocols

EXAM ALERT
Be sure to know how to determine a router’s router ID based upon the IP addresses of the router’s
interfaces.

Take notice that if there is a logical interface the IP address overrides any physical IP address
for the router ID, even if it is a lower value. So what do I mean by a logical interface? Cisco
routers include the capability to create logical or virtual interfaces called loopback interfaces. The
advantage of using these virtual interfaces is that, unlike physical interfaces, loopback interfaces cannot go down unless the router is malfunctioning or turned off.

EXAM ALERT
For the exam, keep in mind that loopback interfaces are logical interfaces that cannot go down unless
the router is malfunctioning or turned off.

OSPF Topologies
The nature in which OSPF operates varies greatly depending on the type of topology to
which an OSPF interface is connected. Such operations as hello and dead timers, neighbor
discovery methods, and OSPF update overhead reduction are ultimately dictated by the
OSPF interface’s topology. The three main type of topologies are the following:
. Broadcast Multi-access—These topologies denote multiple devices accessing a medi-

um in which broadcasts and multicasts are heard by all devices sharing that medium
(for example, ethernet).
. Non-broadcast Multi-access—NBMA topologies are similar to broadcast multi-

access topologies (multiple devices accessing a medium), except that devices cannot
hear each other’s broadcasts because the medium is separated by other routers, such as
with Frame Relay.
. Point-to-Point—On a point-to-point link, there are only two devices on a shared

network link.
To demonstrate the point, consider how OSPF timers operate in different topologies. For
instance, in broadcast multi-access and point-to-point links, the hello and dead interval is 10
and 40 seconds, respectively. Remember, these hello messages are not full routing updates like
distance vector routing protocols. The hello messages contain minimal information to identify the sending device to other neighbor routers to ensure that their dead timers do not expire
and cause a topology change.

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 415

415

OSPF

Because NBMA network topologies such as Frame Relay typically comprise slower links, the
default timers for these topologies are 30 seconds for hello messages and 120 seconds for the
dead timer. The hello messages are not sent as often in NBMA topologies to ensure that OSPF
routers are not needlessly consuming bandwidth on the WAN links.
DR/BDR Elections
Another significant topology-related function of OSPF is the election of a Designated Router
(DR) and a Backup Designated Router (BDR) in broadcast and non-broadcast multi-access
topologies. Routers in these topologies undergo these elections to reduce the amount of
update overhead that can be incurred when a link state changes.
For example, in Figure 12.3, all the routers in Area 7 are connected to a switch, which is indicative of a broadcast multi-access topology. If the link connected to Area 0 on ABR Router B
were to fail, OSPF protocol dictates that it flood the update to all the neighbors in its neighbor table. When Router B sends that update to all the routers in the topology, all devices hear
that because they are all connected to the same switch. However, recall that after the other
routers receive that update, they have to alert all their neighbors—once again, all the routers
connected to the switch. This time, multiple routers send the update and cause excessive traffic on the switched network to devices that are already aware of the update. If you have a large
number of routers in the topology, this update traffic can consume quite a bit of unnecessary
bandwidth and processor utilization. In point-to-point links, it is not necessary to have a DR
or BDR election because only two routers are on the segment and there is no threat of excessive update traffic.

EXAM ALERT
Remember that DRs and BDRs are elected only on broadcast and non-broadcast multi-access networks.

When a DR and BDR are elected (in case the DR fails), routing updates are minimized
because the update is sent only to the DR and the BDR. The DR then is responsible for
updating the rest of the topology. The election is determined by the following:
1. Highest interface priority—An arbitrary number you can configure on an interface-

by-interface basis. The default is 1. A value of 0 renders the device ineligible for DR
and BDR election.
2. Highest Router ID—In the event of a tie, the highest Router ID is the tiebreaker.

EXAM ALERT
Be sure to keep in mind for the exam that DR and BDR elections are decided by the highest interface
priority, followed by the highest Router ID in the event of a tie.

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 416

416

Chapter 12: Link-State and Hybrid Routing Protocols

I received an
update. Need
to flood to my
neighbors.

I received an
update. Need
to flood to my
neighbors.

I received an
update. Need
to flood to my
neighbors.

D
A

F

ABR B
C
E

Area 7
Area 0

I received an
update. Need
to flood to my
neighbors.

I received an
update. Need
to flood to my
neighbors.

FIGURE 12.3

Broadcast multiaccess topology
updates.

TIP
This election is based upon the assumption that all devices start the OSPF process at the same time.
Realistically, the first router that comes online is the DR and the second is the BDR. If you need to set
another router as the DR, you must take the current DR and BDR offline or restart the OSPF process to
force the election.

Figure 12.4 demonstrates the election process between several routers in a broadcast multiaccess topology. Because Router D’s interface priority is highest, that router becomes the DR
for that segment. Router F, with the second highest priority, becomes the BDR in case Router
D is turned off or crashes. Now if a link fails, the update is sent to Router D, which in turn
updates the rest of the topology.
One missing piece of this OSPF puzzle is how the devices manage to send updates to the DR
and BDR routers only if they are all connected in the same topology. The answer lies in the
manner in which OSPF routers propagate LSAs and LSUs. Rather than broadcast this information as RIPv1 and IGRP do, OSPF sends updates to two different reserved multicast
addresses. The multicast address, 224.0.0.6, is reserved for the DR and BDR. When a router
needs to send an update in a broadcast or non-broadcast topology, it sends the LSU to
224.0.0.6, which only the DR and BDR process. The DR then sends the LSU to the multicast
address of 224.0.0.5, which is the address to which all OSPF routers are listening for updates
and hello messages.

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 417

417

OSPF

Priority: 23
RID: 10.1.42.25
DR

Priority: 1
RID: 10.1.42.105
A

D
F

Priority: 10
RID: 10.1.42.45
BDR

ABR B

Priority: 1
RID: 10.1.42.21
C
E

Area 0

Priority: 1
RID: 10.1.42.50

Priority: 1
RID: 10.1.42.5

FIGURE 12.4
Area 7

DR and BDR
elections.

So now when Router B detects the link failure, it multicasts its LSU to 224.0.0.6, which only
Router D and Router F process. Because Router D is the DR, it disseminates the update to
everyone else in the topology by sending the update to 224.0.0.5.

OSPF Initialization
Recall that link-state routing protocols establish who the router’s neighbors are before
exchanging updates. This process is actually quite intricate and depends on several factors
being in place. To clarify, let’s look into what happens when an OSPF router comes online.
After the OSPF process is started in a router, it sends a hello message out all interfaces that are
configured to participate in OSPF. The hello LSAs are sent to the multicast address of
224.0.0.5 so that all devices running OSPF will process it. Information contained in the hello
messages includes the following: Router ID, hello/dead intervals, known neighbors, area ID,
priority, DR address, BDR address, authentication password (similar to RIPv2), and stub area
flags (if area is configured as a stub area).
A router that receives this hello message adds that neighbor to its neighbor table only if the
hello/dead intervals, area ID, authentication password, and stub flag match its configuration.
If these values match, the router sends a hello message back, which includes the Router ID of
new router in the neighbor list. At that point, the original router adds that router to its neighbor table. This process occurs until the router discovers all the neighbors on its links.

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 418

418

Chapter 12: Link-State and Hybrid Routing Protocols

EXAM ALERT
Remember that the hello/dead intervals, authentication password, stub flag, and area ID must match
in the hello LSAs to form a neighbor relationship.

It is important to note that no update information has been exchanged at this point. If the
topology has a DR elected (indicated in the hello messages it received), it synchronizes its topology table with that router because the DR always has the most current information. If
the topology is a point-to-point connection, the two routers synchronize with the neighbor on
the other side of the link. After the topology tables are synchronized, it is said that the devices
have formed an adjacency. Now that the router has all possible routes in the topology table, it
can run the Dijkstra algorithm to calculate the best routes to each subnet.

Introduction to Configuring OPSF
Objective:

Configure routing protocols given user requirements
One of the first steps you should take when configuring OSPF is to configure loopback interfaces to ensure that your Router ID will match the IP address of the loopback interface when
the OSPF routing process is started. To create a virtual loopback interface, you configure it
like a normal interface, as shown in the following example:
Router(config)#interface loopback 0
Router(config-if)#ip address 10.1.42.1 255.255.255.255

The interface number for the loopback interface is arbitrary because the interface is virtual.
Also, notice the subnet mask used in the loopback interface is 255.255.255.255 or a /32. This
is known as a host mask and is typically used on loopback interfaces because there is no need to
use an entire subnet on a virtual interface that doesn’t connect to anything.

EXAM ALERT
Keep in mind for the exam that loopback interfaces typically have a subnet mask of 255.255.255.255,
known as a host mask.

To start the OSPF process for configuration, you use the router keyword followed by ospf
just as you have in the past with other routing protocols. In the case of OSPF, however, you
must specify a process ID after the router ospf keywords. The process ID is an arbitrary
number ranging from 1–65535, in which the router can track whether you have multiple
instances of OSPF running in your router. Unlike the autonomous system number used in
IGRP, this process ID does not need to match in all router configurations.

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 419

419

OSPF

EXAM ALERT
Remember that the process ID is a locally significant number between 1 and 65535 that is used to
track multiple instances of OSPF that might be running on the router. It does not have to match in all
other router configurations.

Wildcard Masks
Before you go further with the explanation of the OSPF configuration, you need to understand
the means by which OSPF advertises the classless networks in the configuration. Because you
no longer have the luxury of putting a classful subnet in the network statement, you need to
have some way of telling the router what specific IP subnets are to be applied to the OSPF
routing process. OSPF (as well as EIGRP and access lists) use something called a wildcard mask
to identify to the IOS how much of an IP address should be applied to a criteria in a configuration statement. That criteria differs depending on which configuration statements the wildcard mask is using.

NOTE
Wildcard masks are revisited in Chapter 13, “Access Lists,” with access lists.

In the case of OSPF, the wildcard mask is used to define what portion of the IP in a network
statement is to be associated with the routing process. If the IP addresses assigned to interfaces matches the scope of the addresses defined with the IP address and wildcard mask criteria in the network entry, then OSPF is enabled on those interfaces and their subnets are
advertised in routing updates.
Wildcard masks are represented as 32-bit numbers separated in four octets, just like IP
addresses and subnet masks. Each bit in the wildcard mask corresponds back to the same bit
position in the IP address to identify whether that bit should be applied to the criteria.
Specifically, if the bit value in a wildcard mask is a 0, the corresponding bit in the IP address
is checked and applied to the criteria. Conversely, a 1 in a wildcard mask bit signifies that the
corresponding bit in the IP address can be ignored. Using these 0s and 1s, you are basically
telling the IOS to perform pattern matching against the IP address that precedes the wildcard
mask and apply the portion that matches to the conditions in the configuration statement.
For example, if you wanted to apply a wildcard mask to a specific IP address, every bit in the
wildcard mask must be a 0 (0000000.0000000.0000000.0000000) because each corresponding
bit in the IP address is being applied to the criteria. So, for example, if you wanted to specify
the IP address of 10.1.4.2, the corresponding wildcard mask for that specific IP would be
0.0.0.0 in decimal. On the contrary, if you wanted to apply the criteria to any IP (therefore,

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 420

420

Chapter 12: Link-State and Hybrid Routing Protocols

you do not care whether any of the corresponding bits match), you would need to have a wildcard mask composed of all 1s (11111111.1111111.11111111.11111111, or 255.255.255.255 in
decimal). Technically it does not matter which IP address precedes this wildcard mask because
you are applying any value, so it is common to use an IP address of 0.0.0.0 with the
255.255.255.255 wildcard mask.
In cases such as those with OSPF, you need to use wildcard masks to specify a specific IP subnet. For instance, given an IP subnet of 192.168.1.0 /24, you know that you want to apply the
criteria to the first 24 bits in the IP address. Because the last octet of the IP subnet can be any
value from 0–255, you don’t want to apply any of those bits to your criteria. The resultant
wildcard mask will ultimately be composed of the first three octets in the wildcard mask, containing all 0s to match the 192.168.1, and the last octet containing all 1s. Thus, the 192.168.1.0
/24 subnet would be identified as 192.168.1.0 0.0.0.255 in the configuration statement.
That may seem fairly cut and dry, but how do you apply a wildcard mask to a subnet such as
192.168.1.4 /30? You know right off that the first three octets will have all 0s, but you can’t say
you don’t care about all 8 bits in the last octet because you want to apply this criteria only to
those IPs in the 192.168.1.4 255.255.255.252 subnet (192.168.1.4-192.168.1.7). As shown in
Figure 12.5, by breaking down the last octet into binary, you can see how to align the corresponding bits in the wildcard mask. Namely, the first six bits in the last octet must be exactly
the same values that are in the IP address to give you a decimal value of 4. The last two bits
can be any combination of 1s or 0s because they will ultimately give you the values of
192.168.1.4, 192.168.1.5, 192.168.1.6, and 192.168.1.7. Because the first six bits must match,
and the last two do not matter, the wildcard mask in binary for the last octet is 00000011, or
3 in decimal. So, to specify the 192.168.1.4 /30 subnet, your statement would look like
192.168.1.4 0.0.0.3.

IP:
192 168.1 .4
SM:255.255.255.252
WCM:
0.0.0 .3

. 128

64

32

16

8

4

2

1

. 0
. 1
. 0

0
1
0

0
1
0

0
1
0

0
1
0

1
1
0

0
0
1

0
0
1

FIGURE 12.5

Wildcard mask breakdown.

TIP
An easier way to determine a wildcard mask for an entire subnet is by subtracting the subnet mask from
255.255.255.255. For example, 255.255.255.255 – 255.255.255.252 = 0.0.0.3. In addition, the wildcard
mask is always one less than the increment of the subnet in the octet where the subnet falls. For instance,
a subnet of 255.255.255.252 has an increment of 4. So the wildcard mask in the last octet (because the
/30 subnet falls in the last octet) is one less than the increment, or 0.0.0.3.

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 421

421

OSPF

Notice in Figure 12.5 that the wildcard mask happens to be the inverse of the subnet mask.
For this very reason, the wildcard mask is sometimes referred to as the inverse mask. This is the
case for all wildcard masks that correspond to an entire subnet.

EXAM ALERT
You will be expected to be able to determine a wildcard mask given an IP address or an entire subnet
for several concepts throughout the CCNA exam. It is imperative that you practice and master these
calculations and be able to recognize an incorrect configuration if presented with a troubleshooting
scenario.

OSPF Network Configuration
Reverting back to the matter of configuring OSPF, you left off with entering the OSPF routing process by typing something similar to the following:
Router(config)#router ospf 4

Recall that the number 4 in this example is the process ID and does not have to match in all
routers. Because you are in the routing process (indicated by the Router(config-router)#
prompt) for OSPF, you are ready to specify the classless networks that are to participate in
OSPF. As you do with other routing protocols, you start off by using the keyword network,
but from there you go a different direction. At this point, you need to specify an IP address
or IP subnet, followed by the wildcard mask to identify which interfaces are participating in
the OSPF process. Immediately following the IP and wildcard mask is the keyword area followed by the OSPF area number where the router’s interface is located. For example, if you
have an IP address of 192.168.1.1 with a subnet mask of 255.255.255.0 connected to area 0,
you would configure it something like the following:
Router(config)#router ospf 4
Router(config-router)#network 192.168.1.0 0.0.0.255 area 0

EXAM ALERT
Be sure you understand the syntax involved in starting the OSPF process and assigning networks to
that process.

Because you use the wildcard mask in the OSPF configuration, you actually have multiple
ways to specify an interface and its subnet in the OSPF routing process. Using the same example, you could use any of the following configurations in Table 12.2 to place that interface in
area 0.

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 422

422

Chapter 12: Link-State and Hybrid Routing Protocols

TABLE 12.2

Alternate network Statements

Command

Explanation

Router(config-router)#network 192.168.1.1 0.0.0.0 area 0

The interface with
the IP address of
192.168.1.1 and its
subnet will be
advertised in OSPF.

Router(config-router)#network 192.168.0.0 0.0.255.255 area 0

Interfaces and their
subnets starting
with 192.168 will be
advertised in OSPF.

Router(config-router)#network 192.0.0.0 0.255.255.255 area 0

Interfaces and their
subnets starting
with 192 will be
advertised in OSPF.

Router(config-router)#network 0.0.0.0 255.255.255.255 area 0

All interfaces and
their subnets will be
advertised in OSPF.

EXAM ALERT
Because there are so many ways you can advertise the networks with OSPF, the exam will be looking
for one specific way. If not otherwise specified, specify the entire subnet for each interface.

In the example demonstrated in Figure 12.6, you are shown the configuration for two of the
routers in the multi-area OSPF autonomous system. First, notice that Router B and Router
D do not have matching Router IDs; these values are significant locally only to those routers
to keep track of multiple instances of OSPF that might be running. Router D has both interfaces in the backbone area, so you specify each subnet, using the appropriate wildcard mask,
and identify the networks to be in Area 0. Notice the configuration parameters are similar in
Router B except the interface that has the 192.168.1.8 subnet assigned to it is in Area 51. With
that network placed in a different area, that router is now configured to be an ABR.

Additional OSPF Commands
As you already know, OSPF is loaded with additional features and capabilities that make this
routing protocol extremely adaptable. Throughout the course of your Cisco career, you may
find yourself needing to configure additional parameters to fit the needs of your network.
This section covers a few of the many configurations that OSPF offers.

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 423

423

OSPF

RouterB(config)#router ospf 2
RouterB(config-router)#network 192.168.1.4.0.0.0.3 area0
RouterB(config-router)#network 192.168.1.12.0.0.0.3 area 0
RouterB(config-router)#network 192.168.1.8.0.0.0.3 area 51

A
ABR B
192.168.1.4/30

C
192.168.1.8/30

172.17.0.0/16

192.168.1.12/30

Area 51
D
172.18.0.0/16
RouterD(config)#router ospf 65535
RouterD(config-router)#network 192.168.1.12.0.0.0.3 area0
RouterD(config-router)#network 172.16.0.0.0.0.255.255 area 0

Area 0

FIGURE 12.6

Multi-area OSPF
configuration
example.

For instance, in instances where you want to designate your area as a stub to decrease the
amount of routing information stored in the topology database, you can use the area command in the routing process to identify that area as a stub:
Router(config-router)#area 51 stub

TIP
Remember, the stub flag was one of the required fields to form a neighbor relationship, so be sure you
configure this for all routers that touch that area.

Because OSPF does not have automatic summarization, you have to configure these routers
manually to summarize a set of networks. For example, if you wanted to summarize the
192.168.1.4 /24–192.168.1.7 /24 subnets in Area 51, you would use the range keyword in the
area configuration, as in the following:
Router(config-router)#area 51 range 192.168.1.4 255.255.252.0

OSPF also has several commands that are actually configured on the interfaces as opposed to
in the routing process. For example, if you wanted to manipulate the cost of an interface to
make a network favorable over another or to force the router to load balance, you can use the
ip ospf cost command as shown here:
Router(config)#interface serial 0/0
Router(config-if)#ip ospf cost 2

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 424

424

Chapter 12: Link-State and Hybrid Routing Protocols

On interfaces that are connected to broadcast and non-broadcast multi-access topologies, it is
highly recommended that you change the priority in those routers that you want to force the
DR and BDR election. By default, the priority is 1, but you can change that manually by using
the ip ospf priority command as follows:
Router(config)#interface serial 0/0
Router(config-if)#ip ospf priority 3

Verifying OSPF
Objective:

Troubleshoot routing protocols
Because there are so many aspects of OSPF, you have a considerable number of show commands at your disposal to verify OSPF operations. As before, you can use the show runningconfig to verify the local configuration of your routing protocol. In the case of OSPF, this is
useful to ensure that you configured the network and wildcard mask correctly, as well as associated the network with the correct area. In addition, show ip protocols once again shows
you information regarding the networks that you are advertising with OPSF.
Recall that OSPF maintains three separate tables in its routing process: the routing table, the
neighbor table, and the topology table. You are already familiar with the show ip route command to view the routing table and verify whether you are receiving OPSF networks from the
neighbors, as illustrated here:
RouterA>show ip route
Codes: C - connected, S - static, I - IGRP, R - RIP, M - mobile, B - BGP
D - EIGRP, EX - EIGRP external, O - OSPF, IA - OSPF inter area
N1 - OSPF NSSA external type 1, N2 - OSPF NSSA external type 2
E1 - OSPF external type 1, E2 - OSPF external type 2, E - EGP
i - IS-IS, L1 - IS-IS level-1, L2 - IS-IS level-2, * ➥candidate default
U - per-user static route, o - ODR
Gateway of last resort is not set
O IA 172.17.0.0/16 [110/74] via 192.168.1.6, Serial0/0
C
172.16.0.0/16 is directly connected, FastEthernet0/0
O
172.18.0.1/16 [110/65] via 192.168.1.6, Serial0/0
10.0.0.0/32 is subnetted, 1 subnets
C
10.1.42.1 is directly connected, Loopback0
192.168.1.0/30 is subnetted, 1 subnets
C
192.168.1.4 is directly connected, Serial0/0

The 172.17.0.0 and 172.18.0.0 networks in this example were learned via OSPF through the
Serial 0/0 interface. Notice that the 172.17.0.0 entry has an IA (inter-area) indicator that signifies that this network was learned from an ABR and the network resides in another area.

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 425

425

OSPF

To see a listing of the neighbors that were discovered through LSA hello advertisements, you
can look in the neighbor table of your router by using the show ip ospf neighbor command
as follows:
RouterA>show ip ospf neighbor
Neighbor ID
Pri
State
10.1.42.100
10
FULL/DR

Dead Time
00:00:39

Address
192.168.1.6

Interface
Serial0/0

The Neighbor ID is actually the Router ID of the neighbor that is being advertised in
neighbor’s hello messages. The Pri field indicates the priority configured on your neighbors’
interfaces. Because the default priority is 1 and this neighbor has a priority of 10, that router
happens to be the DR for that segment as shown in the State field. The other possible values
for this state could be BDR or DROTHER (not a DR or BDR), depending on whether those
routers won the election on that segment.
The show ip ospf database command shows the third table that is maintained by OSPF:
the topology table. This table lists all the network entries and the advertising routers for those
entries. From this table, the SPF algorithm is run and the routes with the lowest cumulative
cost are put in the routing table. Below, you can see the output of the show ip ospf
database summary command because the information is presented in a more intelligible
output:
RouterA>show ip ospf database summary
OSPF Router with ID (10.1.42.1) (Process ID 1)
Summary Net Link States (Area 51)
Routing Bit Set on this LSA
LS age: 537
Options: (No TOS-capability, DC)
LS Type: Summary Links(Network)
Link State ID: 172.17.0.0 (summary Network Number)
Advertising Router: 10.1.42.100
LS Seq Number: 80000001
Checksum: 0x7863
Length: 28
Network Mask: /16
TOS: 0 Metric: 10

Here you can see the 172.17.0.0 network you learned from the neighbor router, 10.1.42.100,
and the cost of the link associated with that network.

NOTE
In a larger-scale example, there could be hundreds of these networks that have been learned from other
routers in the OSPF area and in other areas as well.

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 426

426

Chapter 12: Link-State and Hybrid Routing Protocols

The final show command for OSPF is actually extremely useful when you want to gather information regarding the network topologies that are connected to the router’s interfaces. The
show ip ospf interface command yields a wealth of information such as the local router’s
Router ID, interface topology type, link cost and priority, the Router ID for the DR and BDR
on the segment, hello/dead intervals, and a count of how many neighbors and adjacencies
formed, as you can see in Figure 12.7.

FIGURE 12.7

show ip ospf interface output.

EXAM ALERT
The show ip ospf neighbor and the show ip ospf interface commands can show you
which router is the DR and which is the BDR.

Troubleshooting OSPF
At the risk of sounding like a broken record, you should begin your troubleshooting by using
the show commands discussed in the previous section to ensure your configurations are correct. Some of the more common problems that occur with OSPF configurations are simple
mistakes such as those that occur with incorrect network statements (incorrect network ID,
wildcard mask, or area) or forgetting to configure each router as a stub in a stub area.
In cases where the configuration checks out, OSPF also has the capability of debugging routing information in real-time if you use the debug ip ospf events command. This command
is useful if you are trying to troubleshoot occurrences such as routers that cannot form a
neighbor relationship. In the following example, you can see that a hello message has been
received from 10.1.42.100. Notice that there is not any real routing information in these hello
messages because OSPF does not send entire routing updates in its hello LSAs.
RouterA#debug ip ospf events
OSPF events debugging is on
00:57:13: OSPF: Rcv hello from 10.1.42.100 area 51 from Serial0/0 192.168.1.6
00:57:13: OSPF: End of hello processing

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 427

427

OSPF

Balanced Hybrid Operations
Objective:

Evaluate the characteristics of routing protocols
Balanced hybrid routing protocols are sometimes referred to as advanced distance vector routing
protocols. The rationale behind this logic is that these routing protocols use similar metrics and
have a maximum hop count as distance vector routing protocols. However, balanced hybrid
routing protocols discover neighbors and put them in a neighbor table before exchanging
routing information, as well as keep lists of all possible routes in a topology table, just as linkstate routing protocols do. By taking the best attributes from both classes of routing protocols,
they have the pick of the litter, so to speak, which enables these routing protocols to be considered some of the more elite routing protocols.

EIGRP
The biggest contender for routing protocol stardom is a Cisco proprietary routing protocol
called Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol. As the name states, EIGRP is an
enhanced version of Cisco’s distance vector routing protocol, IGRP. In the next sections, you
will look at exactly how this routing protocol is not only an enhanced version IGRP, but is
actually one of the fastest converging protocols that exist today.

EIGRP Characteristics
Objective:

Select an appropriate routing protocol based on user requirements
EIGRP shares certain distance vector routing protocol attributes as its predecessor, IGRP. For
example, EIGRP uses a maximum hop count (224 maximum) to limit any count to infinity
problems. What’s more, it also uses the same composite metrics as IGRP (bandwidth + delay
by default, but can support reliability, load, and MTU) and can load balance up to six unequal
paths. One significant difference in these metrics, however, is that EIGRP multiplies the metric by 256, giving it a more robust 32-bit metric over IGRP’s 24-bit metric. Finally, EIGRP
also uses the concept of an autonomous system number in its configuration and updates such
as the case with IGRP. They are so similar, in fact, that EIGRP automatically redistributes networks learned from IGRP if their autonomous system numbers match.

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 429

429

EIGRP

EXAM ALERT
Remember that EIGRP uses a 32-bit composite metric, has a maximum hop count of 224, and automatically redistributes IGRP networks if the AS number matches.

At this point, EIGRP breaks away from its predecessor to incorporate certain features from
link-state routing protocols. For instance, EIGRP discovers its neighbors and builds a topology table by sending hello messages as a multicast to the reserved multicast address of
224.0.0.10. After the neighbors are discovered, they synchronize their topology databases and
send hello messages afterwards to keep their dead timers from expiring. The timers differ
depending on the topology, just as you saw with OSPF. Specifically, point-to-point and broadcast topologies have a 5-second hello interval and 15-second dead timer, whereas nonbroadcast multi-access topologies such as Frame Relay have a 60-second hello interval and
180-second dead timer.
Cisco, however, did not stop there with the features of this balanced hybrid routing protocol.
They developed a new routing algorithm called the Diffusing Update Algorithm, or DUAL,
that ensures a 100% loop-free routing environment that can converge in the face of a topology change in a split second. EIGRP also has the capability of routing not only IP, but also IPX
and AppleTalk routed protocols in your network if you have an older Novell or Macintosh
environment.

EXAM ALERT
It is important to remember that EIGRP can route IP, IPX, and AppleTalk routed protocols.

NOTE
If you are routing IP, IPX, and AppleTalk with EIGRP, it keeps a routing, neighbor, and topology table for
each routed protocol. That means it has to maintain nine tables, which consumes a lot of memory and
processor resources.

Another additional useful characteristic of EIGRP is its capability to distinguish between
internally learned networks and those networks that were redistributed into EIGRP. External
networks get tagged when being redistributed so EIGRP knows not to trust those networks
over native EIGRP networks. EIGRP assigns the external networks an administrative distance
of 170 and the internal networks an administrative distance of 90.

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 430

430

Chapter 12: Link-State and Hybrid Routing Protocols

EXAM ALERT
Be sure to remember that internal networks have an AD of 90 and external networks have an AD of
170.

Last but not least, EIGRP is classful by default, but can be configured to be classless similar to
RIPv2. By disabling automatic summarization, you can support VLSM designs and discontiguous networks, as well as manually summarize networks at any bit boundary you want.

EXAM ALERT
In the exam, keep in mind that EIGRP is classful by default, but can support VLSM and discontiguous
networks if configured as classless.

Once again, a significant downfall to this routing protocol is that all your routers must be
Cisco routers (not that that is a bad thing) to support this proprietary routing protocol.

Successor and Feasible Successor Routes
The secret to EIGRP’s rapid convergence is found in EIGRP’s topology table. Just like OSPF,
EIGRP stores all possible routes in the database and calculates the best path to each subnet,
based upon the lowest cumulative composite metric. Those best routes are known as the successor routes.
EIGRP keeps track of the composite metric for every subnet that is being advertised to it by
neighbor routers, known as the advertised distance. The router also tracks that advertised distance plus the composite metric to reach that advertising router from the local router, known
as the feasible distance. The lowest feasible distance to a particular subnet becomes the successor route and is the path that is also placed in the routing table.
Where EIGRP sets it self apart from OSPF is that it keeps an ace up its sleeve, so to speak. If
the conditions are correct, EIGRP keeps a backup route in its topology table known as the
feasible successor. In the event that a successor route fails, the feasible successor becomes the
successor route and is placed in the routing table in about one second.
The feasible successor route is chosen only if the route will not cause a loop when activated
and if it the advertised distance from a neighbor is less than the existing successor route’s feasible distance. In other words, the feasible successor must have an advertised metric that is less
than the metric of the route in the routing table. For example, to reach Network X, imagine
your local router’s successor route might have a feasible distance of 8000. If any neighbor
propagated an advertised distance for it to reach Network X of 7999 or less, then its route is
a feasible successor. If the advertised distances are 8000 or more, then the route will be in the
topology table, but will not be a candidate for a feasible successor.

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 431

431

EIGRP

EXAM ALERT
The successor route is the primary route in the topology table and is also placed in the routing table.
The feasible successor is the second best or backup route, located only in the topology table.

DUAL Algorithm in Action
You already know that the feasible successor route in the topology table will be used if the primary successor route fails. So what is to happen if there isn’t a feasible successor, as illustrated
in Figure 12.8? In this exhibit, you see a glimpse of Router D’s topology table for the
172.17.0.0 /16 subnet. The P next to the network stands for passive state, which in EIGRP
terms is actually a good thing. Underneath, you see two possible routes through Router A and
through Router B with numbers in parenthesis separated by a forward slash. The number on
the left represents the advertised distance from the neighbor router, whereas the number on
the right represents the feasible distance to reach that subnet through that advertising router.
Because the path through Router B has the lowest feasible distance, that is the successor route,
which is also placed in the routing table. The route through Router A has an advertised distance of 9700, which is not less than the successor route’s feasible distance (3700), so it cannot
be a feasible successor.
192.168.1.4/30
192.168.1.8/30
A

B

C

1000

00
50

2000

8000
172.16.0.0/16

700

172.17.0.0/16

192.168.1.12/30

192.168.1.16/30
S0/0

S0/1

Topology Table
P 172.17.0.0/16, 1 successor

D

via 192.168.1.14
(1700/3700), Serial0/1
via 192.168.1.18
(9700/14700), Serial0/0

172.18.0.0/16

FIGURE 12.8 Passive
EIGRP topology.

Now let’s see what happens when the successor route to Router B fails, as shown in Figure
12.9. Without a feasible successor route to 172.17.0.0, Router D puts that network into an
active state. The network is active because the router begins to actively query its directly connected neighbors whether they have a route to the affected network. This is considerably different and less resource intensive than OSPF because the router is only asking its neighbors,
as opposed to flooding the update throughout the area.

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:48 PM

Page 432

432

Chapter 12: Link-State and Hybrid Routing Protocols

192.168.1.4/30
192.168.1.8/30
A

B

C

1000

700

172.17.0.0/16

192.168.1.12/30

17

r
fo
ry to 16
/
ue e
Q out .0.0
r 17
2.

00
50

2000

8000
172.16.0.0/16

S0/0

S0/1

Topology Table
P 172.17.0.0/16, 0 successors

D

172.18.0.0/16

1 replies, active
00:00:03, query-origin:
Local origin
Remaining replies: via
192.168.1.18, r,
Serial0/0

FIGURE 12.9

Active EIGRP

topology.

EXAM ALERT
Remember that passive states are normal functioning routes; however, active states signify the subnet
is being actively queried.

When Router A responds to Router D’s query, it adds that entry into its topology table, which, in
turn, will be the new successor route and be placed in the routing table. To ensure a loop-free environment, Router D has to wait for all queries to come back before implementing the new route.
That is why EIGRP routers start what is known as a Stuck In Active (SIA) timer, which is the length
of time it will wait for a response back from a query. The default SIA timeout is 180 seconds.

EIGRP Configuration
Objective:

Configure routing protocols given user requirements
One of the greatest aspects of EIGRP is that you get all this advanced functionality with minimal configuration effort required. In fact, the configuration for EIGRP is something of a cross
between IGRP and RIPv2’s configurations.
Just as you did for IGRP, you start the routing process for EIGRP by using the router keyword followed by eigrp and the autonomous system number. Once again, this number must
match in all routers that are configured for EIGRP. In addition, as mentioned before, if there
are routers that are configured for IGRP with the same autonomous system number, EIGRP
automatically redistributes those IGRP subnets.
When in the routing process, you use the network keyword once again, followed by the directly
connected classful networks because EIGRP is classful by default. You can change EIGRP into a
classless routing protocol by typing the no auto-summary command as you did with RIPv2. The

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 433

433

EIGRP

following example configuration demonstrates adding the 172.16.0.0 and the 10.0.0.0 networks to
the EIGRP process for autonomous system number 100. In addition, EIGRP is configured to be
classless (no auto-summary) and to load balance over unequal paths (variance command):
Router(config)#router eigrp 100
Router(config-router)#network 172.16.0.0
Router(config-router)#network 10.0.0.0
Router(config-router)#no auto-summary
Router(config-router)#variance 2

TIP
When running EIGRP as a classless routing protocol, you can specify the wildcard mask after the network
ID as you did with OSPF.

After you configure the routing protocol to be classless, you are capable of supporting VLSM, discontiguous networks, and route summarization at any bit level. With automatic summarization
turned off, however, that means you must manually configure EIGRP route summaries. The
command to do this is the ip summary-address eigrp command, which is actually configured
on the interface on which the summarized route will be advertising the summary route, as follows:
Router(config)#interface serial 0/0
Router(config-if)#ip summary-address eigrp 192.168.4.0 255.255.254.0

EIGRP Verification
Objective:

Troubleshoot routing protocols
As with all of the routing protocols, the show ip protocols command displays the networks
being advertised, the administrative distance of the routing protocol, and the routing sources
for EIGRP-learned networks, as follows:
RouterA#show ip protocols
Routing Protocol is “eigrp 100”
Outgoing update filter list for all interfaces is
Incoming update filter list for all interfaces is
Default networks flagged in outgoing updates
Default networks accepted from incoming updates
EIGRP metric weight K1=1, K2=0, K3=1, K4=0, K5=0
EIGRP maximum hopcount 100
EIGRP maximum metric variance 1
Redistributing: eigrp 100
Automatic network summarization is in effect
Automatic address summarization:
192.168.1.0/24 for FastEthernet0/0
Summarizing with metric 2169856

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 434

434

Chapter 12: Link-State and Hybrid Routing Protocols
172.16.0.0/16 for Serial0/0
Routing for Networks:
172.16.0.0
192.168.1.0
Routing Information Sources:
Gateway
Distance
Last Update
(this router)
5
00:00:07
192.168.1.6
90
00:00:01
Distance: internal 90 external 170

As the case with OSPF, you can look at the three tables that EIGRP maintains for each routed protocol. To see the IP routing table, as before, use the show ip route command to verify that you are receiving EIGRP entries which are signified by the letter “D”:
RouterA#show ip route
Codes: C - connected, S - static, I - IGRP, R - RIP, M - mobile, B - BGP
D - EIGRP, EX - EIGRP external, O - OSPF, IA - OSPF inter area
N1 - OSPF NSSA external type 1, N2 - OSPF NSSA external type 2
E1 - OSPF external type 1, E2 - OSPF external type 2, E - EGP
i - IS-IS, L1 - IS-IS level-1, L2 - IS-IS level-2, * ➥candidate default
U - per-user static route, o - ODR, P - periodic downloaded
➥static route
T - traffic engineered route
Gateway of last resort is not set
D
172.17.0.0/16 [90/2195456] via 192.168.1.6, Serial0/0
C
172.16.0.0/16 is directly connected, FastEthernet0/0
D EX 172.19.0.0/16 [170/2169856] via 192.168.1.6, Serial0/0
D
172.18.0.0/16 [90/2297856] via 192.168.1.6, Serial0/0
10.0.0.0/32 is subnetted, 1 subnets
C
10.1.42.1 is directly connected, Loopback0
192.168.1.0/24 is variably subnetted, 2 subnets, 2 masks
C
192.168.1.4/30 is directly connected, Serial0/0

Notice in the preceding show ip route example, there is an entry for 172.19.0.0 with an EX
indicator next to it. You may have already guessed by looking at the administrative distance in
the brackets (170) that this is an external EIGRP route that was learned through another routing source being redistributed into EIGRP. Because it is not native to EIGRP, it is trusted less
than an internally learned route.
To see a listing of your EIGRP neighbors that were discovered through listening to the
224.0.0.10 multicast address, the command is show ip eigrp neighbors, as follows:
RouterA#show ip eigrp neighbors
IP-EIGRP neighbors for process 100
H
Address
Interface
0

192.168.1.6

Se0/0

Hold Uptime
SRTT
(sec)
(ms)
11 00:16:27
36

RTO

Q Seq
Cnt Num
216 0 7

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 435

435

EIGRP

The final table, the topology table, can be viewed with the show ip eigrp topology command.
Here you can see all the possible routes, determine who the successor routes are, learn whether
you have any feasible successors for each subnet, and learn whether those subnets are in an
active or passive state:
RouterA#show ip eigrp topology
IP-EIGRP Topology Table for process 100
Codes: P - Passive, A - Active, U - Update, Q - Query, R - Reply,
r - Reply status
P 192.168.1.4/30, 1 successors, FD is 2169856
via Connected, Serial0/0
P 172.16.0.0/16, 1 successors, FD is 28160
via Connected, FastEthernet0/0
P 172.17.0.0/16, 1 successors, FD is 2195456
via 192.168.1.6 (2195456/281600), Serial0/0
P 172.18.0.0/16, 1 successors, FD is 2297856
via 192.168.1.6 (2297856/128256), Serial0/0
P 172.19.0.0/16, 1 successors, FD is 2169856
via 192.168.1.6 (2169856/256), Serial0/0

NOTE
Notice that the syntax for viewing the topology table for EIGRP is show ip eigrp topology as
opposed to OSPF’s show ip ospf database.

EIGRP Troubleshooting
It wouldn’t be a troubleshooting section without me reminding you that verifying the routing
protocol configuration and process should be the first step before engaging in any debug commands. With that said, EIGRP has the capabilities of performing real-time debugging with
the debug ip eigrp command, as follows:
RouterA#debug ip eigrp
03:43:46: IP-EIGRP: Processing incoming UPDATE packet
03:43:46: IP-EIGRP: Int 172.17.0.0/16 M 2195456 - 1657856 537600
➥SM 281600 - 256000 25600
03:43:46: IP-EIGRP: Int 172.18.0.0/16 M 2297856 - 1657856 640000
➥SM 128256 - 256 128000
03:43:46: IP-EIGRP: Int 172.19.0.0/16 M 2169856 - 1657856 512000
➥SM 256 - 256 0
03:43:46: IP-EIGRP: Int 172.17.0.0/16 metric 2195456 - 1657856 537600
03:43:46: IP-EIGRP: Int 172.18.0.0/16 metric 2297856 - 1657856 640000
03:43:46: IP-EIGRP: Int 172.19.0.0/16 metric 2169856 - 1657856 512000

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 436

436

Chapter 12: Link-State and Hybrid Routing Protocols

Chapter Summary
This chapter rounded out your routing protocol classes as you delved into the modern linkstate and balanced hybrid routing protocols. Table 12.3 is a summary of the characteristics of
link-state routing protocol, OSPF, and the balanced hybrid routing protocol, EIGRP.
TABLE 12.3

OSPF and EIGRP Comparison
OSPF

EIGRP

Classful/Classless

Classless

Both

Algorithm

Dijkstra SPF

DUAL

8

Metric

Cost (10 /Bandwidth bps)

32-bit Composite

Maximum Hop Count

None

224

Areas or Autonomous System Configuration

Areas

Autonomous Systems

Hello/Dead Time

10/40, 30/120

5/15, 60/180

Cisco or IETF

IETF

Cisco

Updates

Multicast (224.0.0.5, 224.0.0.6)

Multicast (224.0.0.10)

Load Balancing

Equal Paths

Unequal Paths

Routed Protocols

IP

IP, IPX, AppleTalk

Because the OSPF Router ID is determined by the highest virtual IP address followed by the
highest physical IP, it is recommended that the first step you should pursue when configuring
OSPF is to create a loopback interface. To start the OSPF routing process, use the router keyword in global configuration, followed by the routing protocol and the OSPF process ID. This
process ID is a locally significant number between 1 and 65535 that does not need to match in
all router configurations. After you are in the routing process, you advertise the networks with
the network command, followed by the network ID and the wildcard mask for that classless
subnet. This is immediately followed by the area keyword and the area to which you want to
associate that network.
By using areas, you can minimize topology and routing tables by creating route summaries on
the ABR routers that are in between two areas. This also helps contain any topology changes
to that area because other areas are not aware of those individual subnets. You can also create
a stub area that instructs the ABR to send a default route to the routers inside the stub area
instead of the subnets from other areas. Because Area 0 is the transit backbone area to which
all other areas must connect, it cannot be a stub area.
OSPF also performs elections in broadcast and non-broadcast topologies to reduce update
overhead. The DR and BDR are elected based upon the highest interface priority followed by
the Router ID as a tiebreaker. Updates are sent to the DR and BDR, who listen on the
224.0.0.6 reserved multicast address. The update is then propagated to the rest of the segment
with the 224.0.05 multicast address, to which all OSPF devices are listening.

15_0789735199_CH12.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 437

437

Chapter Summary

EIGRP configuration consists of specifying the autonomous system number in the router
eigrp command, which must match in all routers. If IGRP routers are configured in the net-

work with the same AS number, EIGRP automatically redistributes them into EIGRP and
gives them an administrative distance of 170 because they are external routes. When in the
routing process for EIGRP, the directly connected classful networks are advertised. You can
make EIGRP classless by using the no auto-summary command.
OSPF and EIGRP can be verified with the show ip protocols and show ip route commands, as with other routing protocols. In addition, you can view the neighbor table by using
the show ip ospf neighbor for OSPF and show ip eigrp neighbors. You can view all the
possible networks learned via OSPF’s neighbors by looking at its topology table with the show
ip ospf database command. EIGRP, on the other hand, shows you all the routes as well as
the successor and any feasible successor routes in the topology table if you use the show ip
eigrp topology command. The successor route is the primary route, which is placed in the
routing table, and the feasible successor route is viable only if the advertised distance to a subnet is less than the feasible distance for the local router.
Finally, you also have the means of seeing real-time updates and hello messages in your routing protocols if you use the debug ip ospf command for OSPF and debug ip eigrp for
EIGRP.

Key Terms
. Dijkstra SPF algorithm

. Point-to-Point Topology

. topology table

. DR

. LSAs

. BDR

. neighbor table

. OSPF priority

. areas

. adjacency

. LSUs

. host mask

. flapping

. process ID

. ABRs

. wildcard mask

. backbone area

. DUAL

. backbone routers

. successor routes

. router ID

. advertised distance

. loopback interface

. feasible distance

. broadcast multi-access topology

. feasible successor routes

. non-broadcast multi-access topology

. SIA timer

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 450

450

Chapter 13: Access Lists

Introduction
A packet slides smoothly across the ethernet cable, gliding through a switch as it heads to its
final destination: the company accounting server. Nobody in the network suspects that this is
no normal packet. Behind all the source and destination header information lies a specially
engineered code designed to unleash a denial of service attack when processed by the unsuspecting Windows 2003 Server platform. Just one more router to pass through and the deed
will be done. Let’s pick up the dialog here:
Incoming router Ethernet interface: bang, bang! (a loud knock is heard)
Router processor (yelling): “Source and destination please!”
Malicious packet (in a scandalous voice): “Yeah, I’m 10.6.9.2 headed to 10.56.100.10 on port
137…make it snappy.”
* gunshot rings out, malicious packet falls to the ground *
Router processor (scraping the crumpled bits into a bucket): “Your type isn’t welcome in these
parts…punk.”
You have just been witness to one of the most well-known uses of an access list: network traffic control. This function enables you to turn a common router into a fairly sophisticated firewall (the Dirty Harry dialog does require an IOS upgrade, however). As you might imagine, a
cornerstone function like this is not only relevant for the CCNA exam, but also for Cisco network deployments worldwide.

Access List Concepts
When you look at the term access list, the only word that stands out is access. Of course, this
immediately causes any technology-minded person to conjure thoughts of controlling traffic,
firewalls, and intrusion detection. Although this may have been Cisco’s initial intention when
they created the concept of access lists, nowadays access lists are used for a plethora of functions on any Cisco device. When you hear the term access list, don’t focus on the word access;
rather, focus on the word list.
An access list is nothing more than an ordered list of permit and deny statements. Every time
the router needs to refer to the list for some reason, it reads it at the top and works its way
down. You can picture it like a bouncer at an upscale drinking establishment. He may have the
following list in his hand:
Deny Joshua Smith
Deny Benjamin Newport
Permit people with brown hair

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 451

451

Access List Concepts

The bouncer is then told to screen people as they attempt to enter the establishment. Now,
when the first patron attempts to enter the building, the following transcript occurs:
Bouncer: “Is your name Joshua Smith?”
Patron: “No.”
Bouncer: “Is your name Benjamin Newport?”
Patron: “No.”
Bouncer: “Do you have brown hair?”
Patron: “Yes.”
Bouncer: “You may enter our establishment.”
The next person that attempts to enter the building is subjected to exactly the same list of
questions in exactly the same order. Now this leads to a major question about this story: What
if someone attempted to enter the building who did not have the name Joshua Smith or
Benjamin Newport, but also did not have brown hair? That person is denied. No questions
asked. This is one of the cornerstone facts of access lists on a Cisco device: If you have not been
explicitly permitted, you are implicitly denied.

EXAM ALERT
Access lists always have an implicit deny statement at the end of the list. This statement is never displayed and cannot be seen through any show command. In an access list, if you have not been explicitly permitted, you are implicitly denied.

The implicit deny statement is hidden at the end of all access lists, and its order cannot be
changed. However, the ordering of access lists elsewhere is of great importance. It can affect
everything about your access list. For example, what if in the question, “Do you have brown
hair?” was listed first in the bouncer’s access list? In that case, Joshua Smith or Benjamin
Newport may have been permitted because they had brown hair, even though they were
explicitly denied elsewhere in the list. A router stops processing an access list after an initial
match statement is found. Let’s leave the bouncer example behind for now and begin applying these concepts to networking.
Suppose you had defined the following access list (this is not correct syntax; rather, it is a conceptual view):
Permit host 192.168.1.50
Deny network 192.168.1.0/24
Permit host 192.168.1.100
<implicit deny>

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 452

452

Chapter 13: Access Lists

This list would permit the host 192.168.1.50, as it intended. However, the host 192.168.1.100
would never be permitted because it is listed after the second statement in the list, which
denies the entire Class C 192.168.1.0/24 subnet.

CAUTION
Depending on the IOS version you are using, there may be different ways the IOS formats access lists. In
older IOS versions, the access list is arranged exactly as you enter it into the command line and cannot be
reordered unless you completely erase the access list and re-create it. In modern IOS versions, the Cisco
router can automatically reorder the list if you make an obvious mistake, as shown in the prior access list.
In the newest versions of the IOS, the Cisco router assigns sequence numbers to each entry, allowing the
addition, removal, and reordering of any line in the access list. (This is an awesome feature, which is covered later in the chapter during the discussion of named access lists.)

EXAM ALERT
For the CCNA exam, assume that the router is using an older version of the IOS that is arranged exactly as you enter it into the command line and cannot be reordered unless you completely erase the
access list and re-create it.

Throughout the rest of this chapter, it is assumed that the IOS version is the same as it is on
the CCNA exam. This means there is no automatic reordering of the list, lines cannot be
individually removed, and the only additions that can be made are lines that are inserted at
the end of the access list (this is the default when configuring the access list).
After all this, keep in mind that these are only the guidelines for creating an access list.
Remember: An access list is just a list of permit and deny statements. The way in which you
apply the access list defines the function of the access list. If you apply the access list inbound
or outbound on a router interface, then the router begins to filter packets according to the
instructions in the access list. If you apply the access list to your Network Address Translation
(NAT) configuration, then the access list defines what IP addresses are permitted to be translated to an Internet-valid address. If you apply the access list to a dial-on-demand configuration, then the access list defines what devices or network traffic types are allowed to bring up
a dial-up interface (such as a modem). I hope I am getting the point across: An access list is nothing more than a list of permit and deny statements. How you apply it dictates what function the access
list really serves.

Functions of an Access List
At this point, we have discussed a few access list uses in passing; however, the truth is that you
will rarely encounter a major function of a Cisco router that does not require an access list in
some way. For the CCNA exam, you should be aware of the following access list functions:

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 453

453

Functions of an Access List
. Packet filtering
. Quality of service (QoS)
. Dial-on-demand routing (DDR)
. Network Address Translation (NAT)
. Route filtering

EXAM ALERT
Although you may be required to understand some of the common applications of access lists on the
CCNA exam, you will be required only to demonstrate proficiency in configuring access lists for packet
filtering, DDR, and NAT.

Packet Filtering
Of course, packet filtering is the most well-known application of access lists. This access list
application enables you to turn your router into a basic firewall. By using these foundation
IOS features, you can begin filtering traffic inbound or outbound from any interface on your
router. Depending on the type of access list you use, you can filter traffic based on the source
address (standard access list) or based on the source and destination address, along with protocol and port number (extended access list).

CAUTION
As soon as you apply an access list for packet filtering inbound or outbound on an interface, the router
must begin comparing every packet against the access list. Depending on the size and matching criteria of
your access list, this can cause significant processor load.

Quality of Service
With the emerging technology of Voice over IP (VoIP), it has become necessary to give
unequal treatment to network traffic. For example, if a router is receiving a considerable
amount of Web surfing traffic (HTTP) and a VoIP telephone call attempts to come through,
the VoIP conversation should receive prioritization over the HTTP traffic to ensure highquality voice conversations; even if it means dropping a few of the HTTP packets. This is the
concept of Quality of Service (QoS). The QoS matching methods rely extensively on access
lists to define what types of traffic are prioritized over others. In this case, you see access lists
in the view that they are permitting traffic to be prioritized and denying others from gaining
network priority.

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 454

454

Chapter 13: Access Lists

Now, not all QoS methods seek the good of the traffic they match. There is a QoS method
called traffic policing that limits the bandwidth available to a certain application. For example,
a network may have problems with users using peer-to-peer file sharing applications, such as
Napster, Kazaa, or Morpheus, and depleting the Internet connection bandwidth. In this case,
a QoS policing policy can be defined to limit the bandwidth available to these application
types. Here’s where the access list irony can be seen: The access list matches these applications
(permits) and then restricts the amount of bandwidth they can use. The applications that are
not matched (denied) do not have any bandwidth restrictions placed on them. In this access list
function, from the application’s point of view, it is better to be denied than permitted. Are you
beginning to see that an access list is just a list of statements? How you apply that access list
determines the effect it has on the network traffic.

Dial-on-Demand Routing
Dial-on-demand routing encompasses any type of temporary (not always on) connection.
Despite their “legacy” stereotype, dial-up connections are here to stay because no other connection type has proved to be as reliable as the circuit switched technology. Although many
people immediately think of modem connections, ISDN BRI and PRI services also fit this profile. In recent years in the United States, the number of ISDN BRI connections has dropped
drastically because the emergence of cheaper connections that use DSL and cable modem
technology. However, the number of ISDN connections overseas is enormous.

EXAM ALERT
Because of the continued popularity of dial-on-demand technology for overseas and backup connections, a good understanding of the Cisco configuration of dial-on-demand technology is required for
the CCNA exam.

Now you might wonder…what does dial-on-demand routing have to do with access lists?
Well, in this case, access lists do not define what traffic is permitted across the dial-ondemand connection; rather, it defines what traffic is interesting enough to bring up the line.
If you ever saw the movie Wayne’s World in the early 90’s, there is a moment where the singer
Alice Cooper walks by Wayne and Garth. Immediately, they fall to the ground yelling, “We’re
not worthy!” In the same sense, you will create an access list that defines traffic that is “worthy” to dial the connection. Some ISDN connections charge a per-minute cost for being connected, so it may pay off to limit dial-up connections to certain traffic sources or packet types
before the line is engaged.

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 455

455

Functions of an Access List

Network Address Translation
Network Address Translation (NAT) has been in widespread use for over a decade, and yet still
never ceases to amaze me. There is perhaps no other configuration that gives you as much satisfaction in “beating the system” as NAT (other than using your neighbor’s wireless access
point, of course). NAT theoretically allows more than 60,000 internal hosts to share a single,
registered, public IP address to access the Internet. This has overcome the current public IP
address shortage and extended the life of TCP/IP version four for years beyond what many
thought possible.

EXAM ALERT
Because of the overwhelming popularity of NAT deployments, it is one of the newest topics to be
added to the CCNA exam.

The way access lists are used in NAT is similar to the way they were used in dial-on-demand
routing. The access lists define what source addresses are “worthy enough” to be transmitted.
A permit statement in the access list applied to a NAT configuration says, “This host (or subnet) is permitted to be translated with NAT.” A deny statement in the same access list says,
“This host (or subnet) is not permitted to be translated with NAT.” A deny statement does not
prevent traffic from being sent; rather, it denies it from being translated with NAT before it
is sent.

Route Filtering
The final access list application covered in this text is route filtering. The routing protocols
discussed so far, such as RIP, IGRP, EIGRP, and OSPF, all make it their mission to pass all
known network routes to neighboring routers. In some network situations, this could cause a
problem. Perhaps you don’t want the router to pass all routes to every router on your network.
For example, you might have some edge routers that connect to a partner company or an
Internet-based peer. You could protect your network by using an access list to filter the routes
that are sent and received to and from this peer.
A configuration known as a distribute list is used most often to apply the access list used for
this function. In order to set this up, you would configure an access list permitting only the
networks you would like to send or receive (or denying the networks you would not like to
send or receive, depending on your strategy). As discussed before, creating the access list does
absolutely nothing, functionally speaking; it must be applied to take action. In the case of
route filtering, you would apply the access list under router configuration mode,
Router(config-router), for the routing protocol you would like to filter, by using the
distribute-list <access_list_number> <in/out> syntax. Access list numbers are used to

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 456

456

Chapter 13: Access Lists

identify the access list you are referencing. For example, if I wanted to keep my routing protocol from sending the routes I have listed as “deny” routes in access list #50, I would use the
syntax:
Router(config-router)# distribute-list 50 out

If I wanted to keep my router from receiving the routes I had listed as “deny” routes in access
list #50, I would use the syntax:
Router(config-router)# distribute-list 50 in

Standard Access Lists
Cisco provides two primary categories of IP-based access lists: standard and extended.
Standard access lists can permit or deny traffic based only on the source IP address. For example, I can set up an access list that says the host 192.168.1.1 is denied. However, if I use a
standard access list to accomplish this, I can never say what destination the host is denied from
reaching or what protocol it is denied from using; I can say only that they are denied. Period.
Therefore, the interface on the router where you apply the standard access list can make all
the difference. The benefits of using standard access lists are the simplicity and resource usage.
Because the standard access lists filter based only on the source IP address, the router processor and memory resources are not as taxed as they are when you use an extended access list.

Configuration of Standard Access Lists
Whenever you decide to begin configuring any type of access list, remember this wisdom from
the Cisco elders: Context-sensitive help is your friend. If you have not yet become accustomed
to entering a question mark after each step of your configuration, now is the perfect chance to
gain that familiarity. In these initial examples, the question mark is entered after each command to find out what arguments the router expects next.
The standard access list is created from Global Configuration mode with the access-list
command, so that’s where this example begins:
Neo(config)#access-list ?
<1-99>
IP standard access list
<100-199>
IP extended access list
<1100-1199>
Extended 48-bit MAC address access list
<1300-1999>
IP standard access list (expanded range)
<200-299>
Protocol type-code access list
<2000-2699>
IP extended access list (expanded range)
<700-799>
48-bit MAC address access list
dynamic-extended Extend the dynamic ACL absolute timer

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 457

457

Standard Access Lists

Just by looking at the categories of access-list, you can tell what protocols this router supports. In this case, the router supports the IP-only feature set. Otherwise, you would see access
list categories for each protocol (such as IPX/SPX, Appletalk, or Decnet). Notice the number
ranges for each access list; the type of access list you are going to create depends on what number you type after the access-list command. If you were to type access-list 25, the syntax that followed would be that of a standard access list because you chose a number between
1 and 99. Likewise, if you were to enter the command access-list 135, the syntax that followed would be that of an extended access list because you chose a number between 100 and
199.

EXAM ALERT
Knowing that access list numbers 1–99 represent standard access lists and 100–199 represent extended access lists increases your chances of passing the CCNA exam by at least 1.2%.

In addition to dictating the type of access list that will be created, the access list number represents your access list as a whole. As the name “access list” implies, each access list number
can contain many individual statements. For example, you could create access list 4, which
contains 3000 specific lines dictating what source IP addresses are permitted and denied.
Even though each access list can contain many statements, if you have a router with an
extremely complex configuration, you could run out of access lists. For this reason, Cisco created the expanded access list ranges for both standard (1300–1999) and extended (2000–2699)
access lists, as shown in the prior syntax. This ensures that routers will never run out of
IP access list numbers again. The configuration example continues by using access list number 25:
Neo(config)#access-list 25 ?
deny
Specify packets to reject
permit Specify packets to forward
remark Access list entry comment

The first decision you need to make about this access list entry is whether the statement will
permit or deny. Remember, at the bottom of every access list is the invisible implicit deny, so
you need to permit at least one thing. Imagine that you want to permit the host 10.1.1.5:
Neo(config)#access-list 25 permit ?
Hostname or A.B.C.D Address to match
any
Any source host
host
A single host address

You are now given the option to either enter an IP address, use the any keyword to match any
source host address, or to use the host keyword to match a single host address. You might ask
the question at this point, “So do I enter the IP address 10.1.1.5 here, or the keyword host?”

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 458

458

Chapter 13: Access Lists

You can enter either one. Try entering the IP address first, and then the example returns to the
host command:
Neo(config)#access-list 25 permit 10.1.1.5 ?
A.B.C.D Wildcard bits
log
Log matches against this entry

Because the host keyword was not used, the router is now prompting for the correct wildcard
bits. This may bring back bad memories of the OSPF routing protocol, which is another major
router configuration that relies on wildcard masks (also called inverse masks) to specify OSPF
interface(s). Just to review, a wildcard mask is exactly the opposite of a subnet mask. The zero
bits (0) of a wildcard mask say, “Look at these,” whereas the one bits (1) of a wildcard mask say,
“I don’t care.” For example, if you entered the IP address 172.16.0.0 with a wildcard mask
0.0.255.255, the router would look at the 172.16 digits (because they matched the binary zeros
in the wildcard mask) and would not care about the 0.0 digits (because they matched the binary ones in the wildcard mask). This means that the address 172.16.90.100 would match because
all the router cares about is that the address starts with 172.16. This now brings us back to the
configuration. You need to create a wildcard mask that matches exactly the IP address 10.1.1.5.
It would be safe to say that you want the router to look at every single octet of that IP address,
so the appropriate wildcard mask would be 0.0.0.0. Here’s a look at the complete line of
syntax:
Neo(config)#access-list 25 permit 10.1.1.5 0.0.0.0 ?
log Log matches against this entry
<cr>

Notice that the only options context-sensitive help gives you is to enter the log command
(which writes a record to the router log file anytime this entry is matched) or to press Enter.
If you choose the latter, you enter your first line into an access list. Let’s work through the syntax one more time to add a second statement to the access list. This time, you want to permit
the entire 192.168.77.0/24 subnet:
Neo(config)#access-list ?
<1-99>
IP standard access list
<100-199>
IP extended access list
<1000-1099> IPX SAP access list
<1100-1199> Extended 48-bit MAC address access list
<1200-1299> IPX summary address access list
<1300-1999> IP standard access list (expanded range)
<200-299>
Protocol type-code access list
<2000-2699> IP extended access list (expanded range)
<300-399>
DECnet access list
<400-499>
XNS standard access list
<500-599>
XNS extended access list
<600-699>
Appletalk access list
<700-799>
48-bit MAC address access list
<800-899>
IPX standard access list

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 459

459

Standard Access Lists
<900-999>
rate-limit

IPX extended access list
Simple rate-limit specific access list

Notice the IOS on the Neo router has been upgraded to a version that supports a few more
protocols than the prior IOS version. You will now continue on through this configuration of
permitting the entire 192.168.77.0/24 subnet, using context-sensitive help to guide you
through each additional piece of syntax.
Neo(config)#access-list 25 ?
deny
Specify packets to reject
permit Specify packets to forward
Neo(config)#access-list 25 permit ?
Hostname or A.B.C.D Address to match
any
Any source host
host
A single host address
Neo(config)#access-list 25 permit 192.168.77.0 ?
A.B.C.D Wildcard bits
log
Log matches against this entry
<cr>
Neo(config)#access-list 25 permit 192.168.77.0 0.0.0.255 ?
log Log matches against this entry
<cr>
Neo(config)#access-list 25 permit 192.168.77.0 0.0.0.255
Neo(config)#

The second line has just been added to access list 25. Notice that the wildcard mask 0.0.0.255
tells the router to look at the 192.168.77 (the first three octets of zero bits in the wildcard
mask), and to ignore the last octet (because of the one bit in the last octet of the wildcard
mask). You can now use a couple of show commands to verify your work: show ip accesslists or show running-config.
Neo#show ip access-lists
Standard IP access list 25
permit 10.1.1.5
permit 192.168.77.0, wildcard bits 0.0.0.255

Neo@show running-config
Building configuration...
<…output omitted…>
access-list 25 permit 10.1.1.5
access-list 25 permit 192.168.77.0 0.0.0.255

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 460

460

Chapter 13: Access Lists

Initially, it looks as if the router lost the wildcard mask that was added for the 10.1.1.5 host.
The Cisco router removes the 0.0.0.0 because an IP address without the wildcard mask is
assumed to be an individual host anyway.

EXAM ALERT
Some IOS versions completely remove the wildcard mask as shown in the text, whereas other, newer
IOS versions insert the host keyword, such as in the following:
access-list 25 permit host 10.1.1.5

To be safe on the CCNA exam, always use either the wildcard mask or the host keyword when configuring your access list in a simulation. Never just type in an IP address and press Enter. Although this
may work on real Cisco equipment, the test simulations may deduct points.

Placement of Standard Access Lists
As mentioned before, you can create access lists all day on your router and no functional
change will ever occur. Access list take effect only when you apply them in some way. This
chapter focuses on applying access lists for security purposes. Access lists can be placed
inbound or outbound on any router interface. When applying access-list for security,
remember this mantra:
One access list…
…per protocol,
…per interface,
…per direction
You must take these rules into account when deciding how to engineer the access list. Here is
what the mantra means: You must design a single access list to include all the possible permit
and deny statements you need for each protocol (such as TCP/IP or IPX/SPX, not subprotocols such as TCP or UDP) on a single interface for the inbound or outbound direction.
You are allowed to apply only one access list number inbound and one access list outbound.
Finally, keep this in mind before you apply an access list: The access list goes into effect immediately when applied. Before you apply the access list, check the access list thoroughly to make
sure you have allowed enough traffic to pass through. The most common mistake made by
network administrators is to create an access list and quickly list the items they want to deny.
They then apply this to an interface, forgetting about the implicit deny at the end of the access
list. The access list then acts as a “deny all” statement for the interface, effectively shutting
down the communication on that interface. If this is done in a production network, it can have
devastating effects.

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 461

461

Standard Access Lists

The other common mistake is to make changes to an access list while it is applied to an interface. Although this can be done successfully, it is not recommended. The changes go into effect
immediately after you press the Enter key, not giving you the time you need to take the entire
access list into consideration.

NOTE
Many Cisco administrators create their access lists in a text editor such as Notepad, which enables you to
reorder the statements as you see fit before the access list is created and applied.

With all these cautions in place, the syntax to apply the access list to the interface is simple.
Use the following syntax from interface configuration mode:
Router(config-if)#ip access-group <access_list_number> <in/out>

The <in/out> keyword tends to be the most confusing portion of this syntax. The in keyword filters inbound traffic to the interface, whereas the out keyword filters outbound traffic
from the interface. The easiest way to remember this is to picture yourself as a router.
Seriously, stand up and say out loud, “I am a router.” Now hold your arms out and picture
them as router interfaces. Your left arm is a FastEthernet connection to a switch. Your right
arm is a serial link to a remote office. If you apply an access list on your FastEthernet interface in the IN-bound direction, it filters traffic coming from the switch, up your arm, and into
your body. If you apply it OUT-bound on your FastEthernet interface, you are filtering traffic leaving your body, and going out to the switch. By putting yourself in the place of the
router, you will get the direction right every time.

EXAM ALERT
Cisco testing procedures do not currently restrict you from standing and waving your arms wildly in the
testing center as long as you do not hit any other test takers.

For example, let’s apply access list 25 that was created previously to a router’s FastEthernet 0
interface in the inbound direction. Just as a refresher, I list the syntax used to create the access
list first, and then apply it to the interface:
Trinity(config)#access-list 25 permit 10.1.1.5 0.0.0.0
Trinity(config)#access-list 25 permit 192.168.77.0 0.0.0.255
Trinity(config)#interface fastethernet 0
Trinity(config-if)#ip access-group 25 in

The access list is now applied and in effect. The router permits the host 10.1.1.5 and anyone
from the network 192.168.77.0/24 to enter the router’s FastEthernet 0 interface (inbound)

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 462

462

Chapter 13: Access Lists

from an attached switch. The implicit deny keeps any other devices from entering
FastEthernet 0.

Standard Access List Examples
Now let’s start putting this newfound knowledge into practice. Use the topology shown in
Figure 13.1 to see a visual diagram for this example.
172.16.50.100/24

Network 3
172.16.50.0/24

172.16.60.0/24
Network 1
Fa0/0

S0/0
Fa0/0

S0/1
Homer

Marge

172.16.20.0/24

S1/0
S0/0

172.16.60.100/24

172.16.10.0/24

Internet

S0/0
Fa0/0
Maggie

FIGURE 13.1
172.16.70.100/24

172.16.70.0/24
Network 2

Standard access list
deployment.

Isolating Networks
To keep devices on Network 3 from accessing devices on Network 1 the first thing you must
determine is where in the network you want to create the access list. When configuring standard access lists, the best practice is to create and apply the access list on the router closest to
the destination. Standard access lists cannot dictate what the source IP addresses are permitted
or denied; they can say just that they are permitted or denied. By applying the access list close
to the destination, you effectively limit the scope of effect that the access list has. If you apply
it too close to the source, you may deny or permit too much. You will see more examples of
this as you work through applying more access lists.

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 463

463

Standard Access Lists

EXAM ALERT
Know that the best practice of standard access lists is to apply them on the interface closest to the
destination.

When you look at the figure, you can see that the Homer router is closest to the destination
(Network 1), so that is the place to begin configuration:
Homer>enable
Homer#configure terminal
Homer(config)#access-list 30 deny 172.16.50.0 0.0.0.255

A line has been added to the access list to block Network 1. If the access list is left like this, it
will also deny all other traffic because of the implicit deny at the end, so you need to add a
statement that permits all other networks to reach Network 1:
Homer(config)#access-list 30 permit any

TIP
The any keyword is a shortcut, just as the host keyword is. You could accomplish the same thing by
using the statement:
access-list 30 permit 0.0.0.0 255.255.255.255

When you have a wildcard mask of all 255s, the router does not care what you enter for the IP address
(which is all zeros in this case, but could have been anything). This is equivalent to a permit any statement. Use whichever one you feel more comfortable with.

You have created the access list; now it’s time to apply it. Looking back at the figure, there are
two possible places to apply this access list on the Homer router: inbound on the S0/0 interface, or outbound on the Fa0/0 interface. Using the best practice of applying closest to the
destination, this is how to do the latter:
Homer(config)#interface fastethernet 0/0
Homer(config-if)#ip access-group 30 out

Voilà! This part of the example is accomplished. Now here’s the complete code without the
commentary:
Homer>enable
Homer#configure terminal
Homer(config)#access-list 30 deny 172.16.50.0 0.0.0.255
Homer(config)#access-list 30 permit any
Homer(config)#interface fastethernet 0/0
Homer(config-if)#ip access-group 30 out

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 464

464

Chapter 13: Access Lists

Isolating a Network from Specific Hosts
You now need to prevent just two devices (the Network 1 and 2 hosts) from accessing Network
3. If you remember the rule of applying the standard access list closest to the destination, you
know that the configuration should be performed on the Marge router:
Marge>enable
Marge#configure terminal
Marge(config)#access-list 45 deny host 172.16.70.100
Marge(config)#access-list 45 deny host 172.16.60.100
Marge(config)#access-list 45 permit any

Now that the access list has been created, you have to decide where to apply it. Initially, you
might eye the S0/0 interface inbound. If you applied it there, the host 172.16.70.100 and
172.16.60.100 would be denied as soon as they tried to make their way into the S0/0 interface
of Marge. Although this would prevent the hosts from reaching Network 3, it would also block
them from accessing Network 1 and the Internet (because they cannot even enter the Marge
router). Aha! Do you now see why it is so important to apply the standard access list close to
the destination? In this case, you need to apply it to the FastEthernet 0/0 interface, outbound:
Marge(config)#interface fastethernet 0/0
Marge(config-if)#ip access-group 45 out

Perfect. This part of the example is complete.

Isolating the Internal Network from the Internet
The servers on Network 3 contain confidential information and should not be accessible from
the Internet. Assuming your entire internal network uses 172.16.0.0/16 addresses, this configuration should maintain the isolation of Network 3 from Network 1 and 2 hosts. Wow! This
requires a little thought. You have no idea what addresses may be trying to come in from the
Internet, so you have to reverse your strategies. So far, you have been denying a host or
network and permitting everything else. You must now permit what you know and deny everything else, still keeping in mind that you cannot allow the two hosts from the previous objective to access the server. Start on the Marge router in Global Configuration mode and remove
the access list applied previously:
Marge(config)#no access-list 45

CAUTION
Removing the access list by using the no access-list <number> command does not remove the
access-group command from the interface. The access list is still applied! Thankfully, an empty access
list allows all traffic (this overrules the implicit deny statement). However, as soon as you add one line to
the access list, the implicit deny statement is reapplied with all its fury. It is a very good idea to un-apply
the access list from the interface while you make changes.

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 465

465

Standard Access Lists

Whew! That caution popped up at just the right place. Let’s follow that advice:
Marge(config)#interface fastethernet 0/0
Marge(config-if)#no ip access-group 45 out

Now you can start on a new access list. First, deny the specific hosts that should not be able to
reach Network 3:
Marge(config)#access-list 45 deny host 172.16.70.100
Marge(config)#access-list 45 deny host 172.16.60.100

Super. Now that they’re taken care of, you can permit the rest of the 172.16.0.0/16 subnet (all
the internal networks):
Marge(config)#access-list 45 permit 172.16.0.0 0.0.255.255

Notice that the wildcard mask cares about only the first two octets of the IP address, thus permitting any IP address that begins with 172.16. This is why the deny statements for the hosts
were listed first. Otherwise, this line would have permitted them. With the one permit statement added, you have finished creating the access list. The implicit deny should catch any
other networks not specified (including those coming from the Internet). Finally, using best
practices, you need to apply this list close to the destination:
Marge(config)#interface fastethernet 0/0
Marge(config-if)#ip access-group 45 out

Awesome! This just keeps getting better. Mission accomplished.

Restricting VTY Access
Now here’s a new application for an access list. So far, access lists have been applied inbound
and outbound on interfaces, but access lists can also be applied to VTY lines (which are used
for Telnet). This example will allow only the host on Network 2 to Telnet to the Marge router.
The command syntax to do this differs slightly from applying an access list to an interface.
Instead of using the ip access-group command, use the access-class command.
After referring back to the figure, you can see that the host on Network 2 has the IP address
172.16.70.100. Here’s the configuration:
Marge(config)#access-list 55 permit host 172.16.70.100
Marge(config)#line vty 0 4
Marge(config-line)#access-class 55 in

That’s it! The implicit deny blocks all other hosts from accessing your VTY lines. This brings
up a huge tip.

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 466

466

Chapter 13: Access Lists

CAUTION
If you are configuring access lists on your router remotely, be sure to allow your remote Telnet session
access into the router in the access list. It is a very common mistake to create an access list that kills the
remote Telnet session and requires the administrator to drive to the site (or contact someone on-site) to
reconfigure the router through the console port. It is, therefore, a good practice to issue the following
command before applying an access list remotely:
Router# reload 5

This instructs the router to reboot itself in 5 minutes if there is no administrative intervention. This way, if
you lock yourself out of the router, it reboots and sets its configuration back to what it was before you
applied the access list. If the access list applies successfully without limiting remote access, be sure to
issue the no reload command to stop the automatic reboot countdown.

Extended Access Lists
“Beware of the extended access list!” This grave warning comes from many CCNA testers who
have gone before you. Out of all the topics on the CCNA exam, not one has come close to
tripping up candidates more than the extended access list. With most things in Cisco, the difficulty comes in the concept and the syntax is quite simple. However, when it comes to the
extended access lists, the concepts are fairly straightforward; it is the syntax that can be a monster. Fear not, my brave CCNA studier. After working through this section, you will feel quite
comfortable with extended access lists.

Configuration of Extended Access Lists
After you have set up a few standard access lists, you’ll have the configuration mastered.
Standard access lists allow you to permit or deny network traffic based only on the source
address. On the other hand, extended access lists allow you to permit or deny traffic based on
the sub-protocol, source address, source port number, destination address, and destination
port number—and that’s just what is on the CCNA exam. An extended access list can even filter based on time of day or user authentication. Now if you imagine fitting all those parameters into a single line of syntax, you begin to understand why extended access list syntax can
become quite long.
Before we get deep into each step of the syntax, let’s take a step back and look at extended
access list parameters from a distance. First off, extended access lists are identified by the numbers 100–199, as shown by context-sensitive help:
Neo(config)#access-list ?
<1-99>
IP standard access list
<100-199>
IP extended access list
<1100-1199>
Extended 48-bit MAC address access list

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 467

467

Extended Access Lists
<1300-1999>
<200-299>
<2000-2699>
<700-799>
dynamic-extended

IP standard access list (expanded range)
Protocol type-code access list
IP extended access list (expanded range)
48-bit MAC address access list
Extend the dynamic ACL absolute timer

From a broad view, an extended access list requires three major parameters: a protocol, source
information, and destination information. The general syntax looks like this:
Access-list <100-199> <protocol> <source_information>
<destination_information>

Now let’s walk through the creation of an extended access list, one piece at a time. This example uses access list 150, putting it smack in the middle of the access list range. For this example, web access should be allowed for one host, 10.1.1.5.
Neo(config)#access-list 150 ?
deny
Specify packets to reject
dynamic Specify a DYNAMIC list of PERMITs or DENYs
permit
Specify packets to forward
remark
Access list entry comment

The first thing you notice is that you have the standard <permit/deny> option, but now a
dynamic option has been added to the list. Although dynamic access lists are beyond the scope
of the CCNA certification, the concept is pretty amazing: You can have an access list that
allows minimal outbound or inbound access. If you have a user that needs access to a network
through your router, you can authenticate that user to the router with a pre-determined username and password. If the authentication is successful, a dynamic entry is added to the access
list allowing the device access for a certain amount of time, after which the access list entry is
removed. Amazing stuff!
Because extended access lists have the same implicit deny statement as standard access lists,
you must permit at least one type of packet or all traffic is denied. You can now continue
on through this configuration of permitting web access for the host 10.1.1.5, using contextsensitive help to guide you through each additional piece of syntax.
Neo(config)#access-list 150 permit ?
<0-255> An IP protocol number
ahp
Authentication Header Protocol
eigrp
Cisco’s EIGRP routing protocol
esp
Encapsulation Security Payload
gre
Cisco’s GRE tunneling
icmp
Internet Control Message Protocol
igmp
Internet Gateway Message Protocol
ip
Any Internet Protocol
ipinip
IP in IP tunneling
nos
KA9Q NOS compatible IP over IP tunneling
ospf
OSPF routing protocol

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 468

468

Chapter 13: Access Lists
pcp
pim
tcp
udp

Payload Compression Protocol
Protocol Independent Multicast
Transmission Control Protocol
User Datagram Protocol

Now the syntax is starting to look quite a bit different from the standard access list. You now
have the choice of what protocol to permit or deny.

EXAM ALERT
Although the list is quite exhaustive, for the CCNA exam you need to be concerned with only the following four protocols: IP, TCP, UDP, and ICMP.

These protocols are roughly defined as the following (the applications are explained further
during the discussion on port numbers):
. IP—Permits or denies source/destination addresses that use the entire TCP/IP proto-

col suite. Using this keyword permits or denies all access from a source to a destination.
. TCP—Permits or denies source/destination addresses that use TCP-based applica-

tions. The most common applications include FTP, Telnet, SMTP, and HTTP.
. UDP—Permits or denies source/destination addresses that use UDP-based applica-

tions. The most common applications include DNS and TFTP.
. ICMP—Permits or denies source/destination addresses that use ICMP-based applica-

tions. The most common applications include Echo, Echo-Reply, and Unreachables.
In this example, the access list needs to permit HTTP access, which uses the TCP protocol.
Neo(config)#access-list 150 permit tcp ?
A.B.C.D Source address
any
Any source host
host
A single source host

You are now prompted for the source IP address information. Just as with a standard access
list, you have the option of entering a source IP address followed by a wildcard mask, using
the host keyword to designate an individual host, or using the any keyword to designate all
hosts. This example uses the host keyword to designate an individual PC.
Neo(config)#access-list 150 permit tcp host 10.1.1.5 ?
A.B.C.D Destination address
any
Any destination host
eq
Match only packets on a given port number

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 469

469

Extended Access Lists
gt
host
lt
neq
range

Match only packets with a greater port number
A single destination host
Match only packets with a lower port number
Match only packets not on a given port number
Match only packets in the range of port numbers

From this next context-sensitive help prompt, it looks as if there is a prompt to enter either a
destination IP address or port information. BEWARE! This is where most extended access list
mistakes are made! As you can see from the context-sensitive help, you can enter many forms
of port information: a port equal (eq) to a certain number, greater than (gt) a certain number,
less than (lt) a certain port number, a range of port numbers, and the list goes on and on.
Initially, you might think that this is the place to permit the port for HTTP access (port 80).
Unfortunately, that thought process is incorrect. This area is where you discover the strange
and fascinating phenomena known as a source port number.
By this point, you most likely know the commonly used port numbers such as TCP port 21
for FTP, TCP port 80 for HTTP, and so on. However, most administrators never learn that
these are actually destination port numbers. For any TCP/IP-based communication, there is
always a destination and source port number. Here’s how it works: imagine you have a PC connected directly to the Internet. You would like to use a web browser to access the latest news
headlines; however, like most technology-based individuals, you also have 10 other web browser instances minimized at the bottom of your task bar. You open a new web browser (instance
#11) and access the news website. Sure enough, the web browser window fills with text and
pictures of all the latest news and events. Now how in the world did your computer know to
fill that web browser window (#11) with the information rather than one of the other 10 you
had minimized at the bottom of the screen? The answer is in the source port information. As
soon as you opened the web browser #11, Windows (or whatever operating system you are
using) generated a unique source port number for that window. Whenever it attempts to communicate with the destination host, it uses its unique source port number. The source port
number that the operating system chooses is always above the range of “well known” ports
(which range from 0–1023).
For example, imagine that the news website you want to communicate with is Fox News
(www.foxnews.com), and your PC’s IP address is 204.1.9.52. When the web browser opens, it
generates a random source port of 3382. As shown in Figure 13.2, when the web request is sent
from your PC to the Fox News web server, it is sent to the destination www.foxnews.com:80
(this is known as a socket—the combination of a destination IP address with a destination port
number). It has a source of 204.1.9.52:3382. When the Fox News website communicates back
to your PC, it uses a destination of 204.1.9.52:3382 with a source address of
www.foxnews.com:80.

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 470

470

Chapter 13: Access Lists

Source: 204.1.9.52:3382
Destination: www.foxnews.com:80

204.1.9.52

Internet

TCP
communication
using source and
destination port
numbers.

FIGURE 13.2
Fox News
Web Server
Source: www.foxnews.com:80
Destination: 204.1.9.52:3382

Back to the task at hand. If you enter port number information after the source IP address, you
permit or deny source port information.

NOTE
You will rarely, if ever, know a network device’s source port number information. This number is randomly
generated by the host’s operating system.

By omitting the any source port information and continuing on to the destination address
specifications, the Cisco router assumes all source ports are permitted. This example allows
web access. The destination address is the entire Internet address space. This can be easily
summed up with the destination address keyword of any. The following code enters the any
keyword and continues to use the context-sensitive help to guide you through each additional piece of syntax.
Neo(config)#access-list 150 permit tcp host 10.1.1.5 any ?
ack
Match on the ACK bit
dscp
Match packets with given dscp value
eq
Match only packets on a given port number
established Match established connections
fin
Match on the FIN bit
fragments
Check non-initial fragments
gt
Match only packets with a greater port number
log
Log matches against this entry
log-input
Log matches against this entry, including input interface

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 471

471

Extended Access Lists
lt
neq
precedence
psh
range
rst
syn
time-range
tos
urg
<cr>

Match only packets with a lower port number
Match only packets not on a given port number
Match packets with given precedence value
Match on the PSH bit
Match only packets in the range of port numbers
Match on the RST bit
Match on the SYN bit
Specify a time-range
Match packets with given TOS value
Match on the URG bit

Now you can see that you have a multitude of choices, some of which include the same port
number options you were given before. Now that the destination IP address information has
been specified (with the any keyword), you can now fill in the destination port number. Most
of the time you will use the eq (equals to) port number syntax to designate a single port number. The following code enters the eq keyword and continues to use the context-sensitive help
to guide you through each additional piece of syntax.
Neo(config)#access-list 150 permit tcp host 10.1.1.5 any eq ?
<0-65535>
Port number
bgp
Border Gateway Protocol (179)
chargen
Character generator (19)
cmd
Remote commands (rcmd, 514)
daytime
Daytime (13)
discard
Discard (9)
domain
Domain Name Service (53)
echo
Echo (7)
exec
Exec (rsh, 512)
finger
Finger (79)
ftp
File Transfer Protocol (21)
ftp-data
FTP data connections (20)
<…output omitted for brevety…>
telnet
Telnet (23)
time
Time (37)
uucp
Unix-to-Unix Copy Program (540)
whois
Nicname (43)
www
World Wide Web (HTTP, 80)

Notice that the context-sensitive help now provides a list of commonly used port numbers. At
the top of the list is the option <0-65536>, enabling you to enter any port number you choose.
In this example, you can enter either the keyword www or port number 80 and the result will
be the same.

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 472

472

Chapter 13: Access Lists

EXAM ALERT
Although you can see the list of commonly used port numbers right now, the list may not be available
to you in the CCNA exam. At a minimum, you should commit the following list of ports to memory:
TCP Ports:
Port 21: FTP
Port 23: Telnet
Port 25: SMTP
Port 53: DNS
Port 80: HTTP
Port 443: HTTPS
UDP Ports:
Port 53: DNS
Port 69: TFTP

To complete the access list, the necessary port information is added:
Neo(config)#access-list 150 permit tcp host 10.1.1.5 any eq 80

As before, for the access list to take effect, it must be applied. The same syntax is used to do
this as is used for the standard access list: ip access-group <in/out>. Don’t forget the best
way to find the direction you should apply the access list: Imagine yourself as a router. Is the
traffic going away from you (leaving one of your interfaces)? Apply the access list outbound. Is
the traffic coming into you (received by one of your interfaces)? Apply the access list inbound.
Cisco recommends applying extended access lists closer to the source of the network traffic
you are permitting or denying. This is completely opposite to what you do with standard
access lists. The reason for the complete turnaround is that extended access lists enable you to
specify source and destination requirements, whereas standard access lists allow you to specify
only source requirements. With a standard access list, network traffic may have to cross an
entire worldwide network just to find out that it has been denied. With extended access lists,
you can designate that traffic is denied from a certain destination before that traffic ever leaves
its local subnet.

EXAM ALERT
Standard access lists are always applied closest to the destination. Extended access lists are always
applied closest to the source.

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 473

473

Extended Access Lists

Practical Extended Access List Examples
Because of their flexibility, extended access lists are, by far, the most commonly used access lists
in production networks. This section takes a look at a few real-world requirements and puts
extended access lists into action. Figure 13.3 shows the network diagram used for the extended access list examples.
Intranet Server
172.16.50.100/24

Network 3
172.16.50.0/24

172.16.60.0/24
Network 1
Fa0/0

S0/0
Fa0/0

S0/1
Homer

Marge

172.16.20.0/24

S1/0
S0/0

172.16.60.100/24

172.16.10.0/24

Internet

S0/0
Fa0/0
Maggie

Extended
access lists network diagram.

FIGURE 13.3
172.16.70.100/24

172.16.70.0/24
Network 2

Blocking a Subnet
This example blocks the Network 2 subnet from reaching the intranet server using the FTP
protocol. You must first decide what router to work with. Extended access list best practices
recommend denying this traffic as close to the source as possible. This means that you need
to access the Maggie router.
Maggie(config)#access-list ?
<1-99>
IP standard access list
<100-199>
IP extended access list
<1100-1199>
Extended 48-bit MAC address access list
<1300-1999>
IP standard access list (expanded range)
<200-299>
Protocol type-code access list
<2000-2699>
IP extended access list (expanded range)
<700-799>
48-bit MAC address access list
dynamic-extended Extend the dynamic ACL absolute timer

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 474

474

Chapter 13: Access Lists

Because these are extended access lists, you must use access list numbers 100–199. This example uses 125.
Maggie(config)#access-list 125 ?
deny
Specify packets to reject
dynamic Specify a DYNAMIC list of PERMITs or DENYs
permit
Specify packets to forward
remark
Access list entry comment

The objective requires you to deny FTP traffic, so you should use the deny keyword:
Maggie(config)#access-list 125 deny ?
<0-255> An IP protocol number
ahp
Authentication Header Protocol
eigrp
Cisco’s EIGRP routing protocol
esp
Encapsulation Security Payload
gre
Cisco’s GRE tunneling
icmp
Internet Control Message Protocol
igmp
Internet Gateway Message Protocol
ip
Any Internet Protocol
ipinip
IP in IP tunneling
nos
KA9Q NOS compatible IP over IP tunneling
ospf
OSPF routing protocol
pcp
Payload Compression Protocol
pim
Protocol Independent Multicast
tcp
Transmission Control Protocol
udp
User Datagram Protocol

The FTP application protocol runs on top of TCP, so this is the protocol to choose from the
list:
Maggie(config)#access-list 125 deny tcp ?
A.B.C.D Source address
any
Any source host
host
A single source host

The access list now requires source IP address information. Because you are blocking Network
2, you should include the whole 172.16.70.0/24 range:
Maggie(config)#access-list 125 deny tcp 172.16.70.0 0.0.0.255 ?
A.B.C.D Destination address
any
Any destination host
eq
Match only packets on a given port number
gt
Match only packets with a greater port number
host
A single destination host
lt
Match only packets with a lower port number
neq
Match only packets not on a given port number
range
Match only packets in the range of port numbers

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 475

475

Extended Access Lists

Be careful, now. You can enter either the destination IP address information or port number
information. Remember, this first prompt enables you to enter source port information. You
will rarely, if ever, enter any source port restrictions. Of course, the CCNA exam constantly
tries to trick you with this often confused fact. This example continues right on to the destination IP address information. The intranet server has the address 172.16.50.100.
Maggie(config)#access-list 125 deny tcp 172.16.70.0 0.0.0.255
➥host 172.16.50.100 ?
ack
Match on the ACK bit
dscp
Match packets with given dscp value
eq
Match only packets on a given port number
established Match established connections
fin
Match on the FIN bit
fragments
Check non-initial fragments
gt
Match only packets with a greater port number
log
Log matches against this entry
log-input
Log matches against this entry, including input interface
lt
Match only packets with a lower port number
neq
Match only packets not on a given port number
precedence
Match packets with given precedence value
psh
Match on the PSH bit
range
Match only packets in the range of port numbers
rst
Match on the RST bit
syn
Match on the SYN bit
time-range
Specify a time-range
tos
Match packets with given TOS value
urg
Match on the URG bit
<cr>

Now you are given the option again to enter the port configurations. At this point, the router
is requesting destination port information, which is what you need to use to block FTP. Before
you can specify an individual port, you must first designate the eq (equal to) syntax:
Maggie(config)# access-list 125 deny tcp 172.16.70.0 0.0.0.255
➥host 172.16.50.100 eq ?
<0-65535>
Port number
bgp
Border Gateway Protocol (179)
chargen
Character generator (19)
cmd
Remote commands (rcmd, 514)
daytime
Daytime (13)
discard
Discard (9)
domain
Domain Name Service (53)
echo
Echo (7)
exec
Exec (rsh, 512)
finger
Finger (79)
ftp
File Transfer Protocol (21)
ftp-data
FTP data connections (20)
<…output omitted for brevety…>

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 476

476

Chapter 13: Access Lists
telnet
time
uucp
whois
www

Telnet (23)
Time (37)
Unix-to-Unix Copy Program (540)
Nicname (43)
World Wide Web (HTTP, 80)

You are again given a laundry list of port numbers that you can enter. You can enter the exact
port number or use the commonly used port names in the list.
Maggie(config)#access-list 125 deny tcp 172.16.70.0 0.0.0.255
➥host 172.16.50.100 eq 21

The first line of the access list is now created, but don’t forget that there is still an implicit deny
at the end of the list. If you were to apply this list now, it would block the subnet from reaching anything. You must add at least one permit line; in this case, it is a permit any statement.
Maggie(config)#access-list 125 permit ?
<0-255> An IP protocol number
ahp
Authentication Header Protocol
eigrp
Cisco’s EIGRP routing protocol
esp
Encapsulation Security Payload
gre
Cisco’s GRE tunneling
icmp
Internet Control Message Protocol
igmp
Internet Gateway Message Protocol
ip
Any Internet Protocol
ipinip
IP in IP tunneling
nos
KA9Q NOS compatible IP over IP tunneling
ospf
OSPF routing protocol
pcp
Payload Compression Protocol
pim
Protocol Independent Multicast
tcp
Transmission Control Protocol
udp
User Datagram Protocol

CAUTION
Remember that with extended access lists, the only protocol that encompasses all TCP/IP traffic is the IP
protocol. Often, the TCP protocol is mistakenly chosen for the permit any statement, which results in
only TCP-based applications working.

As mentioned before, the access list must permit all other traffic through. Thus, you must use
the ip protocol selection followed by a source of any and a destination of any. This is accomplished in the following line:
Maggie(config)#access-list 125 permit ip any any

This line allows all TCP/IP traffic from any source to any destination. This is how to create
a permit any (which overrules the implicit deny) in an extended access list.

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 477

477

Extended Access Lists

The access list is now created, but before it can take effect, it must be applied—in this case, as
close to the source as possible. Looking back at Figure 13.3, you can see that the FastEthernet
0/0 interface is as close to the source as you can get (directly connected), so that is the best
option.
Maggie(config)#interface fastethernet 0/0
Maggie(config-if)#ip access-group 125 in

Just like that, the first objective is accomplished. All hosts on Network 2 are denied from using
FTP to access the intranet server, but permitted to do anything else. Here is the complete configuration, without commentary:
Maggie(config)#access-list 125 deny tcp 172.16.70.0 0.0.0.255
➥host 172.16.50.100 eq 21
Maggie(config)#access-list 125 permit ip any any
Maggie(config)#interface fastethernet 0/0
Maggie(config-if)#ip access-group 125 in

Restricting by Protocol
Allow the host on Network 1 to use only HTTP and HTTPS to access the intranet server. Do not restrict
any other access to or from the Network 1 subnet.
This example allows the host on Network 1 to use HTTP and HTTPS only to access the
intranet server. Do not restrict any other access to or from the Network 1 subnet. Now that
you have seen a couple access list examples, you can do this with a little less commentary. The
router closest to the source this time is the Homer router.
Homer(config)#access-list 130 permit tcp host 172.16.60.100
➥host 172.16.50.100 eq 80
Homer(config)#access-list 130 permit tcp host 172.16.60.100
➥host 172.16.50.100 eq 443

Now that you have added the lines to permit the HTTP and HTTPS protocols coming from
the host on Network 1, you need to deny the host from using any other protocol or port to
access the intranet server:
Homer(config)#access-list 130 deny ip host 172.16.60.100 host 172.16.50.100

Did you remember that you should use the ip keyword rather than tcp? That’s an easy mistake to make. Now you must allow all other traffic to continue unhindered:
Homer(config)#access-list 130 permit ip any any

Finally, you must apply as close to the source as possible:
Homer(config)#interface fastethernet 0/0
Homer(config-if)#ip access-group 130 in

Objective, accomplished!

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 478

478

Chapter 13: Access Lists

Restricting by Network
Now here’s something new! In this example, your network should block all incoming Internet
traffic unless an Internet host is fulfilling a request originating from the internal network. This
is one of the most common requests for networks requiring Internet access. Executives want
the network to be secure, so they want to block all incoming traffic from the Internet.
However, if you plan on applying a deny ip any any–style access list to the Internet interface, you might as well unplug the cable. This is why Cisco came up with something known as
the TCP-established access list command. Here’s the concept:
When a web browser connects to a web server, it typically does so on TCP port 80. To be reliable, the TCP protocol initiates all its sessions using something known as a TCP three-way
handshake. This process gets both the sending and receiving hosts on the same page and begins
the data transfer. What the TCP-established command access list argument does is watch for
this handshake to take place. It then opens return traffic ports to allow the contacted Internet
host (and only that host) to communicate back to the internal machine requesting data.
To satisfy the objective, you can access the command prompt on the Marge router and enter
the following line:
Marge(config)#access-list 110 permit tcp any any established

This access list is then applied to the interface connected to the Internet in the incoming direction:
Marge(config)#interface serial 1/0
Marge(config-if)#ip access-group 110 in

CAUTION
Although permitting only the TCP established sessions is very secure, it is not flawless. Cisco therefore
created something known a Context Based Access Control (CBAC), implemented in firewall feature-set IOS
versions. Although this is not on the exam, it is worth mentioning.

EXAM ALERT
Know how to implement a TCP-established access list and what effect this type of configuration has.

Named Access List
In recent years, Cisco has introduced a much better form of access list. As the name implies,
a named access list transcends the typical access list number ranges, enabling you to assign a
logical name to the access list. In addition to the logical name, these named access lists also

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 479

479

Named Access List

allow some simple editing. You can remove individual access list lines without deleting and recreating the entire access list. In very recent IOS versions, the named access lists have been
enhanced to allow complete flexibility of inserting and even rearranging access list entries.
Named access lists are also configured from Global Configuration mode, but are prefaced with
the ip command:
Marge(config)#ip access-list ?
extended
Extended Access List
log-update Control access list log updates
logging
Control access list logging
resequence Resequence Access List
standard
Standard Access List

Because you have specified that you would like to create an IP access list (as opposed to IPX
or Appletalk), the router would like to know whether you would like to create a standard or
extended access list (and don’t worry, I talk about that intriguing resequence keyword later).
It’s time to set up a standard access list:
Marge(config)#ip access-list standard ?
<1-99>
Standard IP access-list number
<1300-1999> Standard IP access-list number (expanded range)
WORD
Access-list name

At first, it doesn’t look too different from the numbered access lists created thus far. However,
look at that last option: Access-list name. You can enter the name of an access list. I’ll name
this one Jeremy’s_List. Watch what happens:
Marge(config)#ip access-list standard Jeremy’s_List
Marge(config-std-nacl)#

Now, instead of adding access list lines directly from Global Configuration mode, you are
taken into an access list sub-configuration mode. From here, you can add permit and deny
entries.
Marge(config-std-nacl)#?
Standard Access List configuration commands:
<1-2147483647> Sequence Number
default
Set a command to its defaults
deny
Specify packets to reject
exit
Exit from access-list configuration mode
no
Negate a command or set its defaults
permit
Specify packets to forward
remark
Access list entry comment

Notice the addition of the sequence number option! By default, the Cisco router inserts lines
with sequence number increments of 10. That means that the first line you enter is sequence
10, the next will be 20, and so on. This is fantastic because you can squeeze lines in between

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 480

480

Chapter 13: Access Lists

just by choosing a sequence number in the greater than 10 and less than 20. Here is a brief
example of this:
Marge(config-std-nacl)#10 permit host 10.1.1.1
Marge(config-std-nacl)#20 permit host 10.2.2.2
Marge(config-std-nacl)#15 permit host 10.3.3.3
Marge(config-std-nacl)#^Z
Marge#show access-lists
Standard IP access list Jeremy’s_List
20 permit 10.2.2.2
15 permit 10.3.3.3
10 permit 10.1.1.1

Lines can be removed by entering no <sequence number>. This makes the old form of access
list look rudimentary.
AdTEC1750(config)#ip access-list standard Jeremy’s_List
AdTEC1750(config-std-nacl)#no 15
AdTEC1750(config-std-nacl)#^Z
AdTEC1750#show access-lists
Standard IP access list Jeremy’s_List
20 permit 10.2.2.2
10 permit 10.1.1.1

Now, check out the command you saw in the context-sensitive help earlier:
Marge(config)#ip access-list resequence Jeremys_List ?
<1-2147483647> Starting Sequence Number

This resequence command makes it possible to move access list lines around! For example, if
I wanted to move sequence number 10 to sequence number 35, I could enter
Marge(config)#ip access-list resequence Jeremys_List 10 35

NOTE
The sequence number feature was added to all access lists (named or otherwise) in IOS version 12.2(15)T
and 12.3(2)T.

Verifying Access Lists
You can use three commands to verify your access list configuration. These commands are
show running-config, show ip interface, and show access-lists.
show running-config

Although this command can be used to verify nearly any configuration on your Cisco router,
it is especially useful when you are working with access lists. There is no other command that

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 481

481

Verifying Access Lists

can quickly show you where access lists are applied without requiring you to weed through
excessive amounts of output. The following output has been trimmed down for brevity.
Marge#sh running-config
Building configuration...
Current configuration : 1867 bytes
!
version 12.3
service telnet-zeroidle
service tcp-keepalives-in
service timestamps debug uptime
service timestamps log uptime
service password-encryption
!
hostname Marge
!
interface Serial 1/0
ip address dhcp
ip access-group 170 in
!
access-list 170 permit tcp any any established
show ip interface

This command shows you where your access lists are applied, as long as you are patient enough
to weed through the excessive amounts of output. The following command views the access
lists applied to interface serial 1/0. Pay particular attention to lines 10 and 11.
Marge#show ip interface serial 1/0
Serial0/1 is up, line protocol is up
Internet address is 10.152.19.1/24
Broadcast address is 255.255.255.255
Address determined by non-volatile memory
Peer address is 10.152.19.2
MTU is 1500 bytes
Helper address is not set
Directed broadcast forwarding is disabled
Outgoing access list is not set
Inbound access list is 170
Proxy ARP is enabled
Local Proxy ARP is disabled
Security level is default
Split horizon is enabled
ICMP redirects are always sent
ICMP unreachables are always sent
ICMP mask replies are never sent
IP fast switching is enabled
IP fast switching on the same interface is enabled
IP Flow switching is disabled
IP CEF switching is enabled

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 482

482

Chapter 13: Access Lists
IP CEF Feature Fast switching turbo vector
IP multicast fast switching is disabled
IP multicast distributed fast switching is disabled
IP route-cache flags are Fast, CEF
Router Discovery is disabled
IP output packet accounting is disabled
IP access violation accounting is disabled
TCP/IP header compression is disabled
RTP/IP header compression is disabled
Policy routing is disabled
Network address translation is enabled, interface in domain outside
WCCP Redirect outbound is disabled
WCCP Redirect inbound is disabled
show ip access-lists

Initially, this command might look like a concise version of show running-config. However,
it has one very handy feature that the other show commands lack: the capability to show how
many packets have matched a given line in an access-list. This capability can be critical in
times of troubleshooting and verification.
In the following example, you can see that there is a single access list (30) that has three lines.
Next to each line, the number of packets that have matched those entries is displayed.
Neo#show ip access-lists
Standard IP access list 30
permit 10.0.0.0, wildcard bits 0.255.255.255 (94 matches)
permit 172.16.0.0, wildcard bits 0.0.255.255 (82 matches)
deny
any (250 matches)

16_0789735199_CH13.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 483

483

Chapter Summary

Chapter Summary
This chapter has given the theory and configuration of IP standard and extended access lists.
A full understanding of these concepts is absolutely critical, not only for your network security, but also for a variety of additional configurations on your router such as NAT, QoS, and
dial-on-demand routing (DDR) to name a few.
The two classifications of IP access lists give you all the flexibility you need in applying them
to your network. Standard access lists filter based only on the source address. These are useful because they consume less processor and memory resources on your router when you
require only simple allow and deny statements based on source addressing. Common uses of
standard access lists include NAT, QoS, and restricting Telnet or Secure Shell (SSH) router
access. On the other hand, extended access lists enable you to filter based on the source
address, destination address, protocol, and port number. Although they may cost you significant processor resources, extended access lists give you the ultimate in flexibility when choosing the types of traffic to allow or deny in your network. Extended access lists have many uses,
but are primarily used for security. The type of access list you create depends on the access list
number you select when performing the configuration. For standard access lists, use numbers
between 1–99; for extended access lists, use numbers between 100–199.
Access lists can be created without any effect to your router. For an access list to be put in
action, it must be applied in some way. To apply an access list to an interface, use the ip
access-group <access_list_number> <in/out> syntax. To determine the direction the
access list should be applied, put yourself in the place of the router. Is the access list filtering
traffic coming into you (inbound) or going away from you (outbound)? If you would like to use
an access list to filter Telnet access to your router, the access list should be applied to your VTY
ports. Under this line configuration mode, use the access-class <access_list_number> in
command to apply the access list.
Modern IOS versions include the capability to support sequenced, named access lists. This feature offers the tremendous advantage of being able to assign a logical name to the access list,
remove statements from the access list, and resequence entries in your access list.

Key Terms
. standard access list

. inverse mask/wildcard mask

. extended access list

. TCP-established

. named access list

. IP

. IP access-group

. TCP

. access-class

. UDP

17_0789735199_CH14.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 498

498

Chapter 14: Network Address Translation

Introduction
I can still remember the very first time I saw Network Address Translation (NAT) in action.
“This is the most amazing thing I have ever seen,” I said, with the same awestruck feeling as
the first time you walk up and look over the Grand Canyon in Arizona. Okay, perhaps it
wasn’t that fantastic, but at the same time, NAT is definitely at the top of my list of configurations I love to set up.
Despite it being one of the most widely implemented concepts in the world of network technology, NAT is the newest topic added to the CCNA exam. This is most likely because of its
configuration complexity: It requires a thorough understanding of standard access lists to successfully deploy. However, Cisco is very wise in adding it to the entry-level exam because nearly every network in the world uses NAT in some shape or form. Even home networks using
Linksys, D-Link, and Netgear routers use NAT.
NAT was originally developed through a combination of Cisco engineers and the Internet
Engineering Task Force (IETF) group in 1994 to overcome the quickly approaching IP
address shortage. With the Internet popularity growing at a rate far faster than expected, the
remaining public IP addresses would soon be depleted. At that time, TCP/IP version 6 (IPv6,
which would have solved the IP address shortage) had been created in a draft status, but would
require a worldwide upgrade of network devices and operating system software to successfully deploy. Rather than upgrading all network-capable devices, the focus was placed on creating a gateway device that could enable multiple network devices to share a single IP address.
As this concept materialized, NAT was born. Theoretically, a router running NAT is capable
of allowing more than 60,000 devices to share a single Internet-valid IP address. Practically
speaking, the router resources (processor and memory) and WAN bandwidth are depleted
long before that limit is reached. With thousands of devices capable of using a single, public
IP address, the life of TCP/IP version 4 (IPv4) has been extended years beyond what was
thought possible.
NAT also acts as a natural security boundary by eliminating end-to-end traceability. If your
router only has a single IP address that is connected to the Internet, the public IP address,
which is assigned to the outside interface, does not belong to any one internal host. For example, imagine that your router’s public IP address is 209.1.5.9, and all your internal hosts come
from the subnet 192.168.1.0/24. Whenever one of the internal hosts accesses the Internet, it
is seen as 209.1.5.9. However, if anyone from the Internet attempts to access 209.1.5.9, the
address maps to no individual host, which makes the internal network invisible to the Internet.

17_0789735199_CH14.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 499

499

NAT Concepts

NAT Concepts
Although the introductory discussion of NAT hits the most popular uses of the technology,
NAT can be used for much more. Before you go deeper into the specific uses, though, you
must first understand the foundation concepts.
In its core function, Network Address Translation does just that: translate addresses. It can
take any IP address and make it look like another. This is why the creative geniuses behind
TCP/IP defined three ranges of “private IP addresses” in RFC 1918. The following is a list of
the three private address ranges:
. Class A—10.0.0.0–10.255.255.255
. Class B—172.16.0.0–172.31.255.255
. Class C—192.168.0.0–192.168.255.255

TIP
You need to know the private IP address ranges.

You might notice that a private address range is defined for each class of address. This gives a
company more flexibility to use different ranges based on the company size. As a general statement, most small companies use the 192.168.X.X range, most medium companies use the
172.16.X.X–172.31.X.X ranges, and most large companies use the 10.X.X.X ranges.
Remember, this is just a general statement, not a solid rule.
It is commonly stated that these private addresses are non-routable, which is not true at all.
Thousands of companies around the world use these addresses and route them throughout
their private networks just fine. This misunderstanding came about because all Internet
Service Providers (ISPs) use access lists to block these addresses from entering or leaving their
networks. It is accurate to say that these private addresses are not Internet routable because, if
they were, there would be thousands of duplicate IP address conflicts every single day.
As shown in Figure 14.1, networks connected to the Internet typically use these private IP
addresses internally and then translate them when attempting to access the Internet. This
enables you to have many duplicate addresses around the world without any conflicts because
they never communicate directly. This can cause problems with overlapping IP addresses
when companies merge, but NAT can even be engineered to solve these problems.

17_0789735199_CH14.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 500

500

Chapter 14: Network Address Translation

Large Company C
Internal Addressing Scheme: 10.0.0.0/8

Large Company B
Internal Addressing Scheme: 10.0.0.0/8

Translates to
200.1.1.12

Large Company A
Internal Addressing Scheme: 10.0.0.0/8

Translates to
200.1.1.11

Translates to
200.1.1.10

Medium Company D
Internal Addressing Scheme:
172.16.0.0/16
Translates to
200.1.1.16

Internet

Translates to
200.1.1.13

Translates to
200.1.1.15
Translates to
200.1.1.14

Medium Company E
Internal Addressing Scheme:
172.16.0.0/16

FIGURE 14.1

Small Company G
Internal Addressing Scheme:
192.168.1.0/24

Small Company F
Internal Addressing Scheme:
192.168.1.0/24

Network that uses a NAT configuration with private addressing.

With this foundation in place, you’re ready to examine the styles of NAT.

Static NAT
Static NAT is the simplest form of NAT. It enables you to map one IP address to another in a
one-to-one relationship. This is typically used to allow access to internal servers from the
Internet that are using a private address space. In Figure 14.2, there are three servers located
on the internal network: a web server, an FTP server, and an email server. These three servers
are assigned to a private IP address space (192.168.1.0/24) and would typically be inaccessible
from the Internet. By using Static NAT, you can map the private IP addresses to a public IP
on a one-to-one basis, enabling these servers to be accessed from the Internet using the three
public IP addresses shown in Figure 14.2.
This Static NAT mapping goes both ways. When someone from the Internet accesses
200.1.1.1, it is translated to the internal address 192.168.1.1. Likewise, when the server
192.168.1.1 accesses the Internet, it is seen as 200.1.1.1. Although this form of NAT does not
allow multiple internal hosts to share a single address, it does implement the security features
of NAT by eliminating end-to-end traceability and enables servers that are sharing your private network to be accessed from the Internet.

17_0789735199_CH14.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 501

501

NAT Concepts

DNS
192.168.1.2
Web
192.168.1.1

Email
192.168.1.3

Static NAT Table
200.1.1.1
192.168.1.1
200.1.1.2
192.168.1.2
200.1.1.3
192.168.1.3

Internet
FIGURE 14.2

Static NAT address mappings.

Static NAT can also be configured to statically translate individual TCP or UDP ports. This
awesome feature enables you to take a single IP address and translate one or many ports to
either the same host or many different hosts. For example, you might have a router that has
the external IP address 195.1.1.1. You can statically configure NAT so that when your router
receives a request on 195.1.1.1, using TCP port 80 (HTTP), it redirects it to the internal
address 192.168.1.50 on TCP port 80. However, when it receives a request on 195.1.1.1, using
TCP port 21 (FTP), it redirects it to the internal address 192.168.1.100 on TCP port 21. In
this way, NAT can act as a type of firewall (allowing only some ports through to specific hosts)
and give you the flexibility of offering many services through the same IP address. Using Static
NAT with ports even makes it possible to redirect port numbers. For example, you might be
using one of those scandalous DSL or cable Internet providers that block certain port numbers to keep you from running a web server from home. You can configure Static NAT in such
a way that when your router receives a request on TCP port 800 it redirects it to an internal
IP address on TCP port 80.

Dynamic NAT
Static NAT is superb if you have a few hosts that need to be translated; however, if many hosts
need to be translated, creating static entries for each one can be quite tedious. This is where
dynamic NAT can help. Dynamic NAT enables you to define a pool of addresses to be
translated along with a pool of addresses to which they are to be translated. The router then
dynamically maps these IP addresses as the need arises. This is not the same thing as allowing
multiple hosts to share the same IP address (known as NAT overloading). Dynamic NAT makes
many one-to-one mappings without requiring you to configure them statically.

17_0789735199_CH14.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 502

502

Chapter 14: Network Address Translation

NAT Overload and Port Address Translation
Now we come to the form of NAT that made it famous. NAT Overload, also known as Port
Address Translation (PAT), enables a single IP address to support many internal clients.
Whenever a host establishes communication with a server outside the NAT firewall, it tries to
access a specific port number (known as the destination port). However, it also uses a source port
number to allow for return traffic (this is discussed more thoroughly in Chapter 13, “Access
Lists”). Figure 14.3 shows how NAT Overload also incorporates this source port number into
the translation.

www.examcram2.com

192.168.0.66 : 1812

192.168.0.13 : 5440

NAT Translation Table
192.168.0.66 : 1812 = 24.1.1.1 : 1812
192.168.0.13 : 5540 = 24.1.1.1 : 5440
192.168.0.8 : 2112 = 24.1.1.1 : 2112

www.cisco.com

NAT
Overload uses port numbers to make translations unique.
FIGURE 14.3

NAT
Router

192.168.0.8 : 2112

www.google.com

The hosts communicating randomly generate the source ports. The NAT router then
appends these to the public IP address to make the source socket (or IP address and port number combination) unique. When the Internet server replies to whatever request was made, it
does so to the source IP and socket. When the NAT router receives the reply it is then able
to redirect it to the correct internal host by referring to its NAT translation table. Because
hosts use random source ports, there is very little possibility that two hosts will choose the
same source port number (one chance out of some 60,000); however, if two hosts do happen
to choose the same port number, the NAT device causes one of the device sessions to reset
and choose a different port number. By using unique port numbers, the router can originate
thousands of requests from its single Internet IP address. This provides Internet access to the
internal network clients while using just one Internet address.

NAT Terminology
Believe it or not, setting up NAT is not very difficult; it’s learning the terminology used with
NAT that can cause your brain to fry. The first time you see these terms, it may make no sense
to you at all, and that’s just fine. It takes some time to soak in. Now, keep in mind that these
are not “Cisco terms,” rather, they are an industry standard way of referring to the four different points in a NAT-based network. Before trying to understand four NAT address
descriptions, you must understand the building blocks used to construct these terms:

17_0789735199_CH14.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 503

503

NAT Terminology
. Inside/Outside—These NAT descriptors refer to where a device is physically located.

If a device is “inside,” it is under your control; it is in your network. If a device is “outside,” it is not under your control; it is outside your network.
. Local/Global—These NAT descriptors refer to where an IP address is located from the

perspective of a NAT device. The NAT device is a network device that has its address
translated through a NAT router. It could be a PC, a server, an XBox, or any other
type of host that has a private address that is translated to a real address on the
Internet. If the IP address is considered “local,” it is seen as a device on the local subnet from the perspective of a NAT device (this may or may not be true). If the IP
address is considered “global,” it is seen as not on the local subnet from the perspective
of a NAT device.
If that doesn’t sound confusing, just wait until we start combining those terms together for the
four NAT address descriptions. Figure 14.4 shows a visual location of these address on the network.

Internet
www.cisco.com
198.133.219.25
Outside
Global
Address

Inside Local
Addresses

Inside Global
Address

192.168.0.25

2

19

NAT
Router

0.0

8.

.16

/24

O

ut

In

sid
e

sid

e

Outside Local
Address

www.cisco.com
198.133.219.25

FIGURE 14.4

terminology.

NAT

17_0789735199_CH14.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 504

504

Chapter 14: Network Address Translation
. Inside Local Addresses—These addresses are the easiest to understand because they

refer to everything inside your network. Remember the word constructs discussed just a
moment ago: An address “inside” is physically located inside your network. From the
perspective of the NAT device, it is “local,” meaning it is seen on the internal network.
If an inside local address were to communicate with another inside local address, that
communication would be described as standard LAN connectivity. No routers would
be needed.
. Inside Global Addresses—Now the terms begin to mix a little bit. Let’s break this

down into the individual pieces: First off, the address is “inside,” which means that it is
physically located on your network; it is under your control. “Global” means that it is
seen as an IP address not on the local subnet from the perspective of one of your NAT
devices. Put all this together and you are left with the Internet valid IP address
assigned to your router that is directly connected to the Internet. This is where a fundamental understanding of inside and outside can really help; if the address were an
“outside global,” it would not be under your control, meaning that it could be any of
the millions of devices attached to the Internet.
. Outside Global Addresses—Outside global addresses refer to devices that are physi-

cally “outside” your network—outside your control. These addresses are “global,”
meaning that the NAT devices on the inside of your network see these as non-local
addresses. Put these two pieces together and you have a description of a standard,
Internet IP address.
. Outside Local Addresses—I saved the best for last. Outside local addresses confused

me for quite some time until I fully understood the capabilities of NAT. First let’s look
at the pieces: This address is physically “outside” your network, out of your control,
out on the Internet. However, it appears to NAT devices as an IP address on the
“local” subnet. What this describes is an Internet host translated as it comes through
the NAT router into your local network. You can think of this as “reverse NAT,” or just
NAT in the other direction. As shown in Figure 14.4, when the cisco.com web server
speaks to the internal hosts on the 192.168.0.0/24 network, they believe it to be colocated on the local subnet with them. They come to this conclusion because the NAT
router translates the outside global address to something local (perhaps 192.168.0.1,
the NAT gateway’s address).

TIP
Understanding the four NAT address descriptors listed is not only useful for the CCNA exam, but also for
understanding any real-world NAT documentation.

17_0789735199_CH14.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 505

505

NAT Configurations

NAT Configurations
Configuring NAT is not all that bad as long as you focus in on your objective. I mention this
because the syntax can be quite daunting when you see all the options available to you.
Advanced NAT configurations can get quite complex.

TIP
For the CCNA exam, you should be able to perform these three NAT-related tasks:
. Configure Static NAT, translating an inside global address (or port number) to an internal host, such
as a web, DNS, or email server.
. Configure Dynamic NAT, translating a pool of inside local addresses to a pool of outside global
addresses.
. Configure NAT Overload, translating many inside local addresses to a single inside global address.
Of these three, I would especially focus on the first and third configurations because they are more common in the real world.

With that said, it’s time to walk through these configurations one at a time.

Static NAT
As discussed earlier, Static NAT performs a one-to-one mapping from an inside local address
to an inside global address (in English: from a private to a public address). This could mean
that all traffic is translated between these addresses, or it could mean that you just choose certain ports through which to translate. As I go through the syntax, I expand a little more on
this. Figure 14.5 adds a network diagram to this syntax.
Internal Network
192.168.1.0/24

Web Server
192.168.1.50

Email Server
192.168.1.100

5.1.1.10

192.168.1.1
NAT_Router

DNS Server
192.168.1.150

Internet
FIGURE 14.5

Static NAT configuration.

17_0789735199_CH14.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 506

506

Chapter 14: Network Address Translation

Before you get into the syntax, I want to make sure you’ve got the terms down. The internal
network consists of the 192.168.1.0/24 addresses. In NAT terms, these are all inside local
addresses. The router has a single Internet IP address of 5.1.1.10. This is considered the inside
global address. The rest of the hosts on the Internet that will be accessing your internal servers
all have outside global addresses.
. Scenario 1: Configure a Static NAT translation so that if any request on any port is

received on the inside global address of the NAT_Router, it forwards that request to
the Internal Web server.
Here we go! First, get familiar with the current interfaces:
NAT_Router#show ip interface brief
Interface
IP-Address
FastEthernet0
192.168.1.1
Serial0
5.1.1.10

OK? Method Status
YES manual up
YES manual up

Protocol
up
up

Everything is as shown in the Figure 14.5. The first step in configuring NAT is to identify your
inside and outside interfaces to the router. This is done on a per-interface basis:
NAT_Router#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
NAT_Router(config)#interface fastethernet0
NAT_Router(config-if)#ip nat inside !identifies internal interface
NAT_Router(config-if)#exit
NAT_Router(config)#interface serial0
NAT_Router(config-if)#ip nat outside !identifies external interface
NAT_Router(config-if)#exit
NAT_Router(config)#

With these interfaces identified to the router, it now knows which interface(s) are considered
outside and inside. Setting up the Static NAT translation is a little more difficult.
Static NAT configurations are set up in global configuration mode with the ip nat syntax:
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat ?
inside
Inside address translation
log
NAT Logging
outside
Outside address translation
pool
Define pool of addresses
service
Special translation for application using non-standard port
translation NAT translation entry configuration

The primary keywords to consider are the inside and outside keywords. These two commands perform exactly the same function from different perspectives. If you choose the
inside keyword, the syntax that follows will translate an inside address to an outside address.
If you choose the outside keyword, the syntax that follows translates an outside address to an

17_0789735199_CH14.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 507

507

NAT Configurations

inside address. Because NAT translations are always two-way, the keyword you choose influences the order you use for the addresses in the upcoming syntax. To save confusion, I would
recommend picking one method (inside or outside) and using it indefinitely. Many moons
ago, I chose to use inside, so that’s what I’ll do here:
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside ?
destination Destination address translation
source
Source address translation

The choice now is whether to translate the inside source IP address or inside destination IP
address. Well, if you are looking from the perspective of the inside device (what was chosen
when the inside keyword was used rather than outside), you need to translate the internal
device’s source IP address rather than its various destination IP addresses (you see now how
this can get confusing if you alternate between inside and outside keywords?).
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source ?
list
Specify access list describing local addresses
route-map Specify route-map
static
Specify static local->global mapping

At this point, the router wants to know what type of translation you would like to perform.
The list keyword is used to perform dynamic NAT translations. Using route-maps for NAT
is far beyond the scope of the CCNA (and perhaps even the CCNP). In this case, you need to
define a static translation.
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static ?
A.B.C.D Inside local IP address
esp
IPSec-ESP (Tunnel mode) support
network Subnet translation
tcp
Transmission Control Protocol
udp
User Datagram Protocol

The router would now like to have either the inside local address or the protocol information.
This scenario requests a full translation from the router’s inside global address to the web server’s inside local address. If you were choosing to use NAT to translate individual ports, you
would use either TCP or UDP protocols. For this scenario, you can enter the web server’s
inside local address.
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static 192.168.1.50 ?
A.B.C.D Inside global IP address

The router now needs to know what inside global address to use. In this example, the router’s
inside global address is 5.1.1.10, which is the same IP address assigned to its Serial0 interface. In the real world, you have the option of purchasing blocks of IP addresses from your ISP.
You can then translate each one of these public addresses to an inside local address without the
address even being assigned to an interface! All you need to do is create Static NAT mappings for

17_0789735199_CH14.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 508

508

Chapter 14: Network Address Translation

each one of the addresses that you have been assigned by the ISP, and your router automatically responds to them on the interface(s) you have designated as ip nat outside interfaces.
In this example, there is only a single IP address, so that’s plugged in here:
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static 192.168.1.50 5.1.1.10 ?
extendable Extend this translation when used
no-alias
Do not create an alias for the global address
<cr>

The extendable keyword enables you to have multiple inside global addresses mapped to the
same inside local address (all the mappings must be marked with the extendable keyword).
The no-alias command enables you to set up a one-way NAT mapping from the inside to
outside. (The outside interface does not pass requests through to the inside host, but the inside
host is translated to the outside.) In this case, you’re not adding either of these special functions, so you can just press the Enter key. Awesome!
You can verify this configuration by using either the show running-config command or the
much more concise show ip nat translations:
NAT_Router#show ip nat translations
Pro Inside global
Inside local
--- 5.1.1.10
192.168.1.50

Outside local
---

Outside global
---

Because this is a manually defined static entry, only the inside global and inside local fields are
populated. If a host tried to connect to this entry (to access the internal web server), you would
see the outside local and outside global columns populate as well. Let me generate some traffic from the outside to show you what this will look like:
NAT_Router#show ip nat translations
Pro Inside global Inside local
--- 5.1.1.10
192.168.1.50
tcp 5.1.1.10:80
192.168.1.50:80

Outside local
--52.1.9.3:3367

Outside global
--52.1.9.3:3367

In this case, I had an outside host access the 5.1.1.10 address with a web browser (TCP port
80). You can see that it kept the original static entry and added a line below it, showing the outside local and outside global addresses of the external client. In this case, they are the same
because the outside host appears as an outside host to the web server (the outside local
address). The port 3367 is the dynamically generated source port number of the outside host,
port 80 is the destination port number sent to the web server. Scenario #1, accomplished!
. Scenario 2: Configure two additional Static NAT translations. If the NAT_Router

receives a request to its inside global address that uses SMTP it should be sent to the
internal email server. If it receives a DNS request on the inside global address, it
should forward it to the internal DNS server. All other traffic should still remain forwarding to the internal web server.

17_0789735199_CH14.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 509

509

NAT Configurations

Wow! What a scenario! To tackle this, you must remember the universal rule of routing: The
more specific matches always win. So, if you were to add specific Static NAT entries that forward just a single port number, it would always overrule the forward all entry configured for
the web server in Scenario #1. Let’s walk through these using context-sensitive help one more
time, with a little less commentary.
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat ?
inside
Inside address translation
log
NAT Logging
outside
Outside address translation
pool
Define pool of addresses
service
Special translation for application using non-standard port
translation NAT translation entry configuration
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside ?
destination Destination address translation
source
Source address translation
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source ?
list
Specify access list describing local addresses
route-map Specify route-map
static
Specify static local->global mapping
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static ?
A.B.C.D Inside local IP address
esp
IPSec-ESP (Tunnel mode) support
network Subnet translation
tcp
Transmission Control Protocol
udp
User Datagram Protocol

So far, the Static NAT mapping has been configured in exactly the same fashion as the previous one. Now we’ll add a little twist: Because we are just forwarding specific ports to the internal server, we’ll need to choose the protocol those ports are using. The scenario called for us
to forward SMTP traffic to the internal E-Mail server and DNS traffic to the internal DNS
server. SMTP uses TCP port 25 and DNS traffic uses UDP port 53 (remember this from the
access-list chapter?), so here’s how the syntax will continue. First, we’ll focus on creating the
map for the E-Mail server:
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static tcp ?
A.B.C.D Inside local IP address
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static tcp 192.168.1.100 ?
<1-65535> Local UDP/TCP port
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static tcp 192.168.1.100 25 ?
A.B.C.D
Inside global IP address
interface Specify interface for global address

17_0789735199_CH14.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 510

510

Chapter 14: Network Address Translation

All righty then. A specific Static NAT mapping has been configured that uses the TCP protocol and pointed to the inside local address of 192.168.1.100 with the inside local port 25. Isn’t
that interesting? Now it’s time to specify an inside local port as well! This opens up a bunch
of possibilities. But before I expand on those, let’s finish the command:
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static tcp 192.168.1.100 25
➥5.1.1.10 ?
<1-65535> Global UDP/TCP port
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static tcp 192.168.1.100 25
➥5.1.1.10 25 ?
extendable Extend this translation when used
no-alias
Do not create an alias for the global address
<cr>
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static tcp 192.168.1.100 25
➥5.1.1.10 25
NAT_Router(config)#^Z
NAT_Router#show ip nat translations
Pro Inside global
Inside local
Outside local
Outside global
--- 5.1.1.10
192.168.1.50
----tcp 5.1.1.10:25
192.168.1.100:25
-----

Did you see that? Not only was the command finished and the Static NAT mapping added to
the table, but now you can see the possibility for the global TCP/UDP port! This enables you
to perform the fantastic configuration of port redirection. Here’s the idea: Perhaps for security
reasons, you didn’t want to have the internal email server answering SMTP requests on port
25, so the internal port on the server is changed to 5525. Now, none of the internal clients can
access that email server via port 25; however, the NAT router can redirect incoming Internet
requests on port 25 to the inside local port 5525! All this is seamless to the Internet clients.
Are you as excited about this as I am?
Finally, let’s add the last NAT translation for the DNS server:
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static udp ?
A.B.C.D Inside local IP address
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static udp 192.168.1.150 ?
<1-65535> Local UDP/TCP port
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static udp 192.168.1.150 53 ?
A.B.C.D
Inside global IP address
interface Specify interface for global address
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static udp 192.168.1.150 53
➥5.1.1.10 ?
<1-65535> Global UDP/TCP port

17_0789735199_CH14.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 511

511

NAT Configurations
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static udp 192.168.1.150 53
➥5.1.1.10 53
NAT_Router(config)#^Z
NAT_Router#show ip nat translations
Pro Inside global
Inside local
Outside local
Outside global
--- 5.1.1.10
192.168.1.50
----tcp 5.1.1.10:25
192.168.1.100:25
----udp 5.1.1.10:53
192.168.1.150:53
-----

Perfect! Three Static NAT entries have now been added. Before moving on, let me call your
attention to the context-sensitive help after the local port information has been entered. Take
a look:
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static udp 192.168.1.150 53 ?
A.B.C.D
Inside global IP address
interface Specify interface for global address

So far, you have been entering the inside global address that you would like to translate.
However, there may be an occasion that you do not know what your global address may be
(primarily when using DHCP for your Internet address). In this case, you can use the
interface keyword rather than an inside global address to translate requests received on the
outside interface to internal hosts. This can be especially useful when using a Cisco router to
perform NAT on a cable or DSL connection at a home.
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static udp 192.168.1.150 53interface serial 0
➥53

Dynamic Pool Translations
The next step is to move from the manual, Static NAT entries to allowing the router to do the
work for you. Dynamic NAT enables you to define a pool of addresses to translate from and a
pool of addresses to translate to. The primary application of Dynamic translations is to temporarily overcome overlapping IP addresses. For example, a company might use subnets of the
10.0.0.0/8 address range for their internal addressing. This company might merge with another company that uses the same internal address space (this happens all the time). The IT staff
could implement an intermediary design that used NAT to translate between the two networks. When performing this type of translation, hosts must refer to each other by hostname
rather than IP address, thus requiring a DNS server be in place. When the NAT router sees a
reply from a remote DNS server, it changes the remote IP address to something other than an
overlapping IP address.
Although the CCNA-level NAT does not get deep into design for overlapping IP addresses,
you need to know the basic configurations of Dynamic NAT. These configurations also act as
springboards into the NAT Overload configuration. First, examine Figure 14.6 for a look at a
Dynamic NAT network diagram.

17_0789735199_CH14.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 512

512

Chapter 14: Network Address Translation
Internal Network
192.168.1.0/24

Internal Network
192.168.2.0/24

192.168.1.1

192.168.2.1
NAT_Router

FIGURE 14.6

Dynamic NAT

translations.

. Scenario 3: Configure the NAT_Router so that hosts from the 192.168.1.0/24 net-

work are seen as IP addresses 192.168.2.200–225 when accessing the hosts in the
192.168.2.0/24 network. Likewise, the hosts from the 192.168.1.0/24 network should
be seen as IP addresses 192.168.1.200–225 when accessing the hosts in the
192.168.1.0/24 network.
This configuration is known as a two-way Dynamic NAT configuration. The truth is, the
NAT_Router in the middle of the diagram is not even doing any routing. It’s just translating
between the subnets. If you ever aspire to move on and tackle the CCIE lab, these sorts of
tricks are key to have in your tool belt. Here’s the configuration walkthrough:
1. As before, configure the interfaces as NAT outside and inside interfaces. In this case, it

does not really matter which one is set up as inside or outside because just a private
network is being translated.
NAT_Router#show ip interface brief
Interface
IP-Address
OK? Method Status
FastEthernet0
192.168.1.1
YES manual up
Serial0
192.168.2.1
YES manual up
NAT_Router#conf t
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
NAT_Router(config)#interface fastethernet0
NAT_Router(config-if)#ip nat inside
NAT_Router(config-if)#exit
NAT_Router(config)#interface serial0
NAT_Router(config-if)#ip nat outside
NAT_Router(config-if)#exit
NAT_Router(config)#

Protocol
up
up

17_0789735199_CH14.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 513

513

NAT Configurations
2. Now you are introduced to a new concept: the NAT pool. This pool defines to what

addresses you will translate. Based on the scenarios, you need to create two NAT pools:
one for the 192.168.2.200–225 range and one for the 192.168.1.200–225 range.
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat ?
inside
Inside address translation
log
NAT Logging
outside
Outside address translation
pool
Define pool of addresses
service
Special translation for application using non-standard port
translation NAT translation entry configuration
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat pool ?
WORD Pool name
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat pool NETWORK1 ?
A.B.C.D
Start IP address
netmask
Specify the network mask
prefix-length Specify the prefix length
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat pool NETWORK1 192.168.1.200 ?
A.B.C.D End IP address
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat pool NETWORK1 192.168.1.200 192.168.1.225 ?
netmask
Specify the network mask
prefix-length Specify the prefix length
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat pool NETWORK1 192.168.1.200 192.168.1.225
➥prefix-length ?
<1-32> Prefix length
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat pool NETWORK1 192.168.1.200 192.168.1.225
➥prefix-length 24
NAT_ROUTER(config)#

This command has created a NAT pool called “Network1” that defines the correct
address range necessary. Notice that this is one of the first commands you have seen
that enables you to use CIDR notation (also known as “bit notation”) for your subnet
mask. You now need to create a second NAT pool for the other network range.
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat pool NETWORK2 192.168.2.200 192.168.2.225
➥prefix-length 24

3. You must now create a couple of standard access lists that will define the addresses that

will be translated. This is one of the non-security uses of an access list.
NAT_Router(config)#access-list 50 permit 192.168.1.0 0.0.0.255
NAT_Router(config)#access-list 51 permit 192.168.2.0 0.0.0.255

17_0789735199_CH14.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 514

514

Chapter 14: Network Address Translation
4. Now you can put all the pieces together and turn on the NAT translation between the

networks. The first thing is to define a translation going from the 192.168.1.0/24 subnet to the 192.168.2.0/24 network.
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat ?
inside
Inside address translation
log
NAT Logging
outside
Outside address translation
pool
Define pool of addresses
service
Special translation for application using non-standard port
translation NAT translation entry configuration
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside ?
destination Destination address translation
source
Source address translation
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source ?
list
Specify access list describing local addresses
route-map Specify route-map
static
Specify static local->global mapping
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source list ?
<1-2699> Access list number for local addresses
WORD
Access list name for local addresses
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source list 50 ?
interface Specify interface for global address
pool
Name pool of global addresses
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source list 50 pool ?
WORD Pool name for global addresses
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source list 50 pool NETWORK2 ?
overload Overload an address translation
<cr>
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source list 50 pool NETWORK2
NAT_Router(config)#

If you were to read the preceding line of syntax in English, it would sound something
like this: “Translate the internal addresses defined in access-list 50 into the pool of
addresses defined in the NAT pool NETWORK2.” Keep a mental note of that
overload keyword you see in the final-context sensitive help; you’ll make use of that
soon enough. For now, let’s define the translation going back the other way:
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat outside source list 51 pool NETWORK1
NAT_Router(config)#

17_0789735199_CH14.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 515

515

NAT Configurations

Notice that this time an outside-to-inside translation was configured because the interface was marked as connected to the 192.168.2.0/24 subnet as the outside interface.
At this point, the networks are translating quite well. Remember that the pool of 25 addresses defined earlier allows only 25 consecutive sessions between the subnets. Any consecutive
sessions above that number will fail.

NAT Overload
Finally it’s time to explore the feature that made NAT famous around the network world: NAT
Overload. NAT Overload is the official name of the feature that allows multiple hosts to share
a single IP address. When Microsoft began allowing their servers to perform routing with the
Routing and Remote Access administrative tools, they decided to call the feature Port Address
Translation (PAT), which caught on in many circles. I prefer to use the former of the two terms
because NAT can statically translate TCP or UDP ports to different inside local address; the
true “port address translation.”
The configuration of NAT Overload is a piece of cake, especially now that you’ve seen the
prior Dynamic NAT configuration. Let’s walk through a new scenario step by step. In Figure
14.7, a typical network is connected to the Internet through the NAT_Router. The router
needs to be configured to perform NAT Overload to enable all the internal clients to access
the Internet through a single IP address. Notice as well that the Internet IP address is assigned
via DHCP, so there’s no way to be sure what the inside global address is at any given point and
time. Here goes!
Internal Network
172.16.0.0/16

Web Server
172.16.1.80
172.16.1.1

DHCP-Assigned
Internet IP
NAT_Router

Internet
FIGURE 14.7

NAT Overload
configuration.

. Scenario 4: Configure the network pictured in Figure 14.7 for NAT Overload, allow-

ing all internal clients to access the Internet. In addition, configure a static entry that
sends any incoming request on TCP port 80 or 443 to the internal web server.



Chapter 14: Network Address Translation

This first thing is to become familiar with NAT_Router:
NAT_Router#show ip interface brief
Interface
IP-Address
FastEthernet0
172.16.1.1
Serial0
68.3.160.5

OK? Method Status
YES manual up
YES DHCP
up

Protocol
up
up

Now it’s time to identify the interfaces to the NAT process:
NAT_Router#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line.
NAT_Router(config)#interface fastEthernet 0
NAT_Router(config-if)#ip nat inside
NAT_Router(config-if)#exit
NAT_Router(config)#interface serial 0
NAT_Router(config-if)#ip nat outside

End with CNTL/Z.

Now, just as with the Dynamic NAT, you need to create an access list that identifies the
addresses to be translated by NAT. Use a named access list this time:
NAT_Router(config)#ip access-list ?
extended
Extended Access List
log-update Control access list log updates
logging
Control access list logging
standard
Standard Access List
NAT_Router(config)#ip access-list standard ?
<1-99>
Standard IP access-list number
<1300-1999> Standard IP access-list number (expanded range)
WORD
Access-list name
NAT_Router(config)#ip access-list standard INTERNAL_ADDRESSES
NAT_Router(config-std-nacl)#permit ?
Hostname or A.B.C.D Address to match
any
Any source host
host
A single host address
NAT_Router(config-std-nacl)#permit 172.16.0.0 ?
A.B.C.D Wildcard bits
log
Log matches against this entry
<cr>
NAT_Router(config-std-nacl)#permit 172.16.0.0 0.0.255.255

Perfect! Now on to the final command that will enable NAT Overload for the addresses that
have been defined. Once again, the “ip nat” syntax from Global Configuration mode is used
to set this up:
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat ?
inside
Inside address translation
log
NAT Logging
outside
Outside address translation

17_0789735199_CH14.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 517

517

NAT Configurations
pool
service
translation

Define pool of addresses
Special translation for application using non-standard port
NAT translation entry configuration

NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside ?
destination Destination address translation
source
Source address translation
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source ?
list
Specify access list describing local addresses
route-map Specify route-map
static
Specify static local->global mapping

This is where the router is asking you to specify the internal addresses to be translated.
Previously, the static keyword was used to perform 1:1 IP address or port translations; now
the list keyword designates a list of internal addresses to be translated. The access list just
created specifies which internal addresses will translate.
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source list ?
<1-2699> Access list number for local addresses
WORD
Access list name for local addresses
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source list INTERNAL_ADDRESSES ?
interface Specify interface for global address
pool
Name pool of global addresses

Now the router needs to know what inside global address the inside local addresses should use.
You can designate this either by using a NAT pool (as shown with the Dynamic NAT configuration), or by specifying an outgoing interface to use. Because you do not know what inside
global address you will have (because of the DHCP configuration), you need to specify the
outgoing interface.
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source list INTERNAL_ADDRESSES interface ?
Async
Async interface
BVI
Bridge-Group Virtual Interface
CTunnel
CTunnel interface
Dialer
Dialer interface
FastEthernet
FastEthernet IEEE 802.3
Lex
Lex interface
Loopback
Loopback interface
Multilink
Multilink-group interface
Null
Null interface
Serial
Serial
Tunnel
Tunnel interface
Vif
PGM Multicast Host interface
Virtual-Template
Virtual Template interface
Virtual-TokenRing Virtual TokenRing
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source list INTERNAL_ADDRESSES interface
➥serial 0 ?



Chapter 14: Network Address Translation
overload
<cr>

Overload an address translation

NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source list INTERNAL_ADDRESSES interface
➥serial 0 overload

There it was! The magic overload keyword. That’s all it takes to turn on NAT Overload for
the interface connected to the Internet. The router will now translate thousands of internal
hosts through a single IP address. One more thing needs to be done to complete the scenario:
Add the Static NAT translation for the web server. By adding this configuration, you combine
NAT Overload with Static NAT, which is a very common configuration. Here goes:
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat ?
inside
Inside address translation
log
NAT Logging
outside
Outside address translation
pool
Define pool of addresses
service
Special translation for application using non-standard port
translation NAT translation entry configuration
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside ?
destination Destination address translation
source
Source address translation
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source ?
list
Specify access list describing local addresses
route-map Specify route-map
static
Specify static local->global mapping
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static ?
A.B.C.D Inside local IP address
esp
IPSec-ESP (Tunnel mode) support
network Subnet translation
tcp
Transmission Control Protocol
udp
User Datagram Protocol
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static tcp ?
A.B.C.D Inside local IP address
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static tcp 172.16.1.80 ?
<1-65535> Local UDP/TCP port
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static tcp 172.16.1.80 80 ?
A.B.C.D
Inside global IP address
interface Specify interface for global address
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static tcp 172.16.1.80 80
➥interface ?
Async
Async interface



NAT Configurations
BVI
CTunnel
Dialer
FastEthernet
Lex
Loopback
Multilink
Null
Serial
Tunnel
Vif
Virtual-Template
Virtual-TokenRing

Bridge-Group Virtual Interface
CTunnel interface
Dialer interface
FastEthernet IEEE 802.3
Lex interface
Loopback interface
Multilink-group interface
Null interface
Serial
Tunnel interface
PGM Multicast Host interface
Virtual Template interface
Virtual TokenRing

NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside source static tcp 172.16.1.80 80
➥interface serial 0 ?
<1-65535> Global UDP/TCP port
NAT_Router(config)#ip nat inside static tcp 172.16.1.80 80
➥interface serial 0 80

Beautiful. This has added the line that will translate incoming requests to the web server in
addition to performing NAT Overload for all other internal clients. If some internal clients are
accessing the Internet, you can verify that the translations are working properly:
NAT_Router#show ip nat translation
Pro Inside global

Inside local

Outside local

Outside global

66.102.7.104:80

66.102.7.104:80

tcp 68.3.160.5:39450 172.16.1.150:39450 66.102.7.147:80

66.102.7.147:80

udp 68.3.160.5:43617 172.16.1.25:43617

207.228.226.5:53

207.228.226.5:53

udp 68.3.160.5:43617 172.16.1.13:43617

64.233.161.9:53

64.233.161.9:53

udp 68.3.160.5:43617 172.16.1.14:43617

192.52.178.30:53

192.52.178.30:53

udp 68.3.160.5:347

202.71.97.92:123

202.71.97.92:123

tcp 68.3.160.5:39449 172.16.1.15:39449

172.16.1.13:347

tcp 68.3.160.5:39453 172.16.1.76:39453

207.228.243.100:80 207.228.243.100:80

tcp 68.3.160.5:39454 172.16.1.182:39454 207.228.243.100:80 207.228.243.100:80
tcp 68.3.160.5:39446 172.16.1.87:39446

67.138.240.17:110

67.138.240.17:110

tcp 68.3.160.5:39448 172.16.1.140:39448 67.138.240.17:110

67.138.240.17:110

udp 68.3.160.5:43617 172.16.1.140:43617 216.239.36.10:53

216.239.36.10:53

tcp 68.3.160.5:80

---

--- !Web Server

216.239.53.9:53

216.239.53.9:53

172.16.1.80:80

udp 68.3.160.5:43617 172.16.1.67:43617

udp 68.3.160.5:43617 172.16.1.220:43617 192.5.6.30:53

192.5.6.30:53

tcp 68.3.160.5:37389 172.16.1.82:37389

68.6.19.2:110

68.6.19.2:110

tcp 68.3.160.5:39447 172.16.1.77:39447

68.6.19.2:110

68.6.19.2:110

tcp 68.3.160.5:39451 172.16.1.77:39451

64.233.167.147:80

64.233.167.147:80

tcp 68.3.160.5:39452 172.16.1.15:39452

64.233.167.147:80

64.233.167.147:80

udp 68.3.160.5:40477 172.16.1.25:40477

216.115.25.17:5061 216.115.25.17:5061

udp 68.3.160.5:40478 172.16.1.142:40478 216.115.25.17:5061 216.115.25.17:5061
udp 68.3.160.5:43617 172.16.1.150:43617 216.239.32.10:53

216.239.32.10:53

17_0789735199_CH14.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 520

520

Chapter 14: Network Address Translation

Holy cow! They sure are working, and it looks like the internal clients have taken advantage
of that fact. If you look down the list of inside local addresses, you can see what inside hosts
are accessing the Internet (along with what source port they are using to establish the request).
Also, take a look at the inside global address; notice anything odd? It’s the same address the
whole way down, just using different port numbers. This is the perfect picture of NAT
Overload. Finally, take a look at the highlighted translation. This is the Static NAT entry that
was added for the internal web server. There are no outside local/global addresses for this
because it is not in use at this time.

Verifying NAT Operation
Although a show running-config command will always be useful to show what commands
you have entered into your router to get NAT running, you can use a few commands to ensure
NAT is operational. The primary command you have seen may times up to this point: show
ip nat translations. This command gives you a snapshot view of what current NAT translations are active on your router. Its sidekick command, show ip nat statistics, gives you
a view of how many translations are currently active, how many total translations have
occurred, and how much of your NAT pool is being used (if performing Dynamic NAT). A
sample output of this command follows:
NAT_Router#show ip nat statistics
Total active translations: 12 (0 static, 12 dynamic; 11 extended)
Outside interfaces:
Serial0
Inside interfaces:
FastEthernet0
Hits: 38415022 Misses: 567286
Expired translations: 568274
Dynamic mappings:
-- Inside Source
[Id: 1] access-list NAT_TRANSLATION interface Ethernet0 refcount 4

Finally, you may encounter a situation where a bad NAT translation is kept in the table. This
happens frequently when you are changing your internal IP address scheme in some way, especially when you are changing individual host addresses that were just accessing the Internet.
Although waiting for some time for the translations to time out solves the problem, impatient
administrators may want to use the clear ip nat translation * command to wipe out any
dynamically created NAT entries. This is not likely to disrupt service to your internal network
because active NAT translations immediately re-create themselves as the internal host sends
or receives data to or from the Internet.

17_0789735199_CH14.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 521

521

Chapter Summary

Chapter Summary
Network Address Translation (NAT) has become so successful for prolonging the life of IPv4
that it has now become a prohibitor of a progressive move to TCP/IP version 6. Because of its
widespread use, NAT features have grown over the years to provide a solution to almost any
network situation.
A company planning to use NAT will deploy one of the three private address ranges on their
internal network, which are prevented from routing to the Internet. They will then use one of
the three forms of NAT—Static NAT, Dynamic NAT, or NAT Overload—to translate these
private ranges onto the Internet. Most networks use a combination of NAT Overload and
Static NAT to accomplish most major network objectives.
Most of the challenge with NAT is learning the terminology that describes the different
addresses on a network. Inside local addresses are internal to a network. The inside global
address represents the public Internet address assigned to your router. Ouside global
addresses represent all the hosts outside of your network attached to the Internet with Internet
IP addresses. Finally, outside local addresses represent hosts outside your network as they are
seen by the internal NAT hosts.

Key Terms
. Network Address Translation (NAT)
. Port Address Translation (PAT)
. Static NAT
. Dynamic NAT
. NAT Overload
. private IP addresses
. public IP addresses
. inside local address
. inside global address
. outside local address
. outside global address
. port redirection
. NAT pool



Chapter 15: Wide Area Networks

Introduction
In nearly all traditional Cisco texts, Wide Area Networks (WANs) are typically moved to the
end of the book. This is amusing to me because WAN connectivity is usually listed in the top
three functions of a router. WAN connections do just that: connect networks that have a wide
area separating them. This type of connection requires you to work with one or more service
providers that supply the logical connections between your locations.
The good news about WAN connections is this: These technologies only encompass only the
Physical and Data Link layers of the OSI Model. Just like the concepts of ethernet and token
ring, WAN links are just another method of transporting data between devices. So with only
two layers worth of technology, WAN links should be fairly simple to learn, right? Well, that’s
the bad news: Because of the ever-increasing demands of the IT machine, WAN links have
become increasingly complex to the point where they can be a specialization in themselves.
Thankfully, the CCNA exam focuses primarily on three specific types of WAN connections:
. Leased Lines
. Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN)
. Frame Relay

EXAM ALERT
To prepare for the CCNA exam, you need to be very familiar with these WAN connections.

Although there are many more WAN connection types, these are currently the most popular.
By studying these WAN connections you will learn the foundation concepts behind WAN
connections in general, making it easier to learn any new WAN technologies as they emerge.

WAN Connection Types
The following three categories of WAN connections comprise most of the connections used
by businesses around the world. As the name implies, each of the WAN connection categories
contains multiple connection types. If you ever called a service provider and asked for a
packet-switched connection, the next question would inevitably be, “What type?”

Leased Lines
This connection category is what most people are familiar with when they hear the term,
“WAN connection.” A leased line connection provides a dedicated, point-to-point link

18_0789735199_CH15.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 535

535

WAN Connection Types

between two locations. The beauty of this connection type is that you have a virtual private
road between your sites. You have complete control over the traffic on that road; nobody else
can share the road with you. If you have a T1-speed connection (1.544Mbps) between your
locations, that bandwidth is always dedicated to you, regardless of whether you use it or not.
Therefore, leased lines are typically the most expensive connection types.

In the Field
The two factors that directly affect the cost of a leased line are
. How far apart, geographically, the sites are located
. The amount of bandwidth required

Leased lines are the most appropriate when you need a fixed amount of bandwidth and complete control over all your traffic. Companies that are implementing Voice over IP (VoIP),
which runs their telephone system over the data network, will usually vie for leased line connections. Because the telecommunications carrier (service provider) is dedicating the leased
line bandwidth to you, they can provide a guaranteed level of service. This not only includes
the uptime (reliability) of the line, but also delay requirements. The delay of the line is how
long it takes a packet to get from the entry point to the end of the connection. Long delays
can cause the quality of a VoIP call to degrade to the point of sounding like a bad cellular
phone call. Because the service provider typically has end-to-end control over a leased line
connection, they can guarantee a specific level of delay.

Circuit-Switched Networks
Anytime you hear the hum of a dial tone followed by the rhythmic beeping of digits, you are
more than likely connected to a circuit-switched network. This type of connection establishes
a dedicated channel (or circuit) for the duration of the transmission, and then tears down the
channel when the transmission is complete. This is known as a dial-on-demand connection. The
largest circuit-switched network in the world is the telephone system, which links together
many different network segments to create an end-to-end circuit for each telephone call.
Circuit-switched networks can be called a “connection-oriented” network type. They are most
useful when you have small amounts of data to reliably send at a time. Some circuit-switched
networks charge on a per-use or per-minute basis (primarily ISDN), so the amount you pay
for the connection is directly related to how much you use it. This type of connection would
be ideal for a small office that uses local area network (LAN) connectivity during the day and
then replicates all the updated data back to the main site in the evening. For example, you
might have a sales office that creates a log of transactions that it sends back to the corporate
headquarters at night.

18_0789735199_CH15.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 536

536

Chapter 15: Wide Area Networks

Packet-Switched Networks
Packet-switched networks enable the service provider to create a large pool of bandwidth for
their clients, rather than dedicate specific amounts of bandwidth to each client (as in leased
lines). The client can then dictate what circuits they would like established through the service provider network between their sites (these are called permanent virtual circuits), providing
an end-to-end connection. By using packet-switched networks to provide WAN connectivity,
you can gain lower-cost WAN connections that can potentially provide more bandwidth to
your locations.
When you sign up for a packet-switched network, the service provider gives you a guaranteed
level of bandwidth. The higher your service guarantee, the more you pay for the connection
on a monthly basis. The great aspect of a packet switched network is that you usually get more
than you are guaranteed; depending on the type of contract you negotiate with the service
provider, you could get much more bandwidth than you are guaranteed. However, you must
realize that this bandwidth is just that: non-guaranteed. If you send extra traffic during a busy
time of day, the service provider can drop the traffic and be well within the service contract.
This also applies for delay guarantees. Because traffic sent through a packet-switched network
may take different paths (depending on the service provider’s infrastructure) to reach the destination, most service providers offer a very loose delay guarantee (if they decide to offer one
at all).

Broadband
Broadband technology, in its base definition, is a system that enables you to send multiple signals over a wire at one time. The alternative technology, baseband, enables you to send only a
single signal over the wire at a time. Broadband connections primarily encompass small
office/home office (SOHO) WAN links that use cable modem or DSL technology to connect
to the Internet. A cable service provider sends multiple signals over a cable coaxial line,
enabling a home user to run many services, such as cable television, high-speed Internet, and
telephone service, over a single line. Telephone providers are offering the same services
through the copper phone line connections.
Medium and large businesses are just now beginning to consider cable and DSL connections
as backup Internet connections for their main offices. Broadband technology is one of the
newest WAN connection offerings to market, and has yet to prove its reliability on a long-term
basis.

Virtual Private Networks (VPNs)
VPNs are not a specific type of WAN connection, but are often used to accomplish the same
purpose as a WAN connection. Connections to the Internet have become widely available at

18_0789735199_CH15.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 537

537

WAN Connection Types

an extremely low cost (when compared against the other types of WAN connectivity). Rather
than purchasing dedicated circuits between locations, you can just purchase a standard Internet
connection at each site. The quality of your Internet connection determines the quality of your
WAN connectivity. After all sites have a connection to the Internet, you can then create tunnels through the Internet to each location, enabling the sites to connect through a full-mesh
relationship (every site is directly connected, through the Internet, to every other site). These
tunnels isolate the interoffice connectivity from the rest of the Internet traffic and secure the
traffic through heavy encryption algorithms.
The VPN tunnels are created with the application of a heavy amount of encryption to the traffic sent between the locations. Because sending your company’s private data across a public
network, such as the Internet, could be perilous, you should scramble (encrypt) your data
before sending it. Because the process of encrypting and de-encrypting data is extremely hard
on a router processor, you may choose to offload this work to a router VPN card (a hardware
add-on), a PIX firewall (Cisco’s firewall platform), or a VPN concentrator (a specific device
manages and maintains many VPN connections). Within this concept lie the advantages and
disadvantages of using VPNs for your WAN connections. The major advantage is the cost:
You can establish full connectivity between all your locations for a small fraction of what it
would cost to purchase dedicated WAN links. You can also allow home users to connect into
the office through a VPN connection to allow for telecommuting employees. The disadvantage is the delay incurred in applying the VPN encryption algorithms and the unreliable
nature of the Internet. Although the Internet is the most redundant network in the world,
because of the massive amount of traffic that crosses the Internet daily, the delay can be inconsistent.

Metropolitan Ethernet (Metro Ethernet)
Metro ethernet technology began to emerge early in the new millennium as a viable alternative to traditional WAN connections when connecting offices within a metropolitan area (primarily major cities). At the end of the century, .com-based businesses were booming. Many of
these companies began laying complex fiber optic–based networks throughout many of the
major metropolitan areas of the nation. When the world economy plummeted at the turn of
the century, many of these .com companies went out of business, leaving huge amounts of
unmanaged fiber cable under the city streets. This fiber was quickly acquired by local service
providers and is slowly being leased to their customers.
Using this fiber to connect offices in the same general region allows for WAN links at speeds
of 1000Mbps or greater, at a fraction of the cost of a standard T1 line. The WAN link can even
terminate onto a standard Category 5E/6 UTP copper cable and plug directly into a switch
using a fiber to copper converter at the customer premise. This enables the WAN connections
to be managed completely through VLANs with no dedicated router hardware in place. The
connections, which are already fast enough, become even faster.

18_0789735199_CH15.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 538

538

Chapter 15: Wide Area Networks

Metro ethernet is beginning to stretch even between cities, as service providers are planting
fiber-optic cable runs between major metropolitan areas. It shouldn’t be too long before intranation WAN links are rated in terms of Gbps as a standard. Metro ethernet is becoming quite
popular in government organizations that have many locations in the same general geographic region.

EXAM ALERT
For the CCNA exam, you should be familiar with the following network types:
. Leased Lines
. Circuit Switched
. Packet Switched

The WAN Physical Layer
The physical connections for WANs are very diverse, primarily because of the diverse form
factors that were created by CSU/DSU manufacturers. The Channel Service Unit/Data
Service Unit (CSU/DSU) device is the box that connects and converts your WAN cabling to
the service provider’s WAN cabling. Although CSU/DSUs often have many lights, buttons,
and LCD displays, they are typically nothing more than a glorified terminal adapter, converting between the service provider’s cable and your local router connection. Figure 15.1
shows a typical physical layout for a WAN connection.
Your Cable

Service Provider’s Cable

Service
Provider
Cisco Router
CSU/DSU

FIGURE 15.1

WAN physical
connection
points.

If a CSU/DSU is involved, you will be responsible for purchasing the cable that connects your
router to the CSU/DSU unit.
Cisco routers primarily use serial interfaces when connecting to a WAN. The Cisco interfaces
come in two types: DB-60 serial interfaces and Smart Serial interfaces. Typically, older routers
use the DB-60 style interfaces, whereas newer routers use the Smart Serial interfaces. The
DB-60 interface received its name because of the 60 pins in the interface. Smart Serial interfaces are much more space efficient, and can squeeze two interfaces into the same WAN
Interface Card (WIC) that the DB-60 interface used.
These WIC interfaces can be installed into any of Cisco’s mainline routers (1700 series,
2600/2800 series, 3600/3800 series).

18_0789735199_CH15.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 539

539

WAN Data Link Encapsulations

After you have installed the interface, you must then purchase the cable that connects your
router to the CSU/DSU. This cable converts from one of Cisco’s two proprietary interface
types (DB-60 or Smart Serial) to a standards-based CSU/DSU connector. Five primary standard connectors have been created for the CSU/DSU units: V.35, X.21, EIA/TIA-232,
EIA/TIA-449, and EIA/TIA-530. The most common connector in North America is V.35.
Notice how these cables convert from the Cisco proprietary Smart Serial or V.35 connector to
the industry standard V.35 connector, which would connect to the CSU/DSU device.
T1 and other ISDN PRI interfaces use an RJ-48 connector. These interface types usually come
with a built-in CSU/DSU, which eliminates the need to purchase an outside box and thereby
eliminates another point of potential failure in your network. Upon initial inspection, the RJ48 connector looks exactly like the RJ-45 connector used for ethernet technology, but don’t be
fooled! The RJ-48 connector is very different. First off, it is fastened to Shielded Twisted Pair
cabling (STP) instead of the standard Unshielded Twisted Pair (UTP) of ethernet. This
reduces line noise on these connections. This is important because WAN connectivity is much
more susceptible to interference than LAN cabling. In addition, the voltage sent across these
wires, the pin-out arrangement, and the line capacitance is different on the RJ-48 connection
than RJ-45.

WAN Data Link Encapsulations
After you have the Physical layer plugged in, you must move up to the Data Link WAN encapsulation. Just as with the Physical layer, a variety of standards are available for the data link
connections. However, the choice of the Data Link protocol is usually much simpler. As long
as your WAN connection supports the Data Link encapsulation you use and you are using the
same type of encapsulation on both ends of the connection, the WAN link will work.
Sometimes, the type of WAN connection you are using forces you to choose one, specific Data
Link encapsulation. For example, if you sign up with a service provider for a Frame Relay connection, you must use Frame Relay Data Link encapsulation. Likewise, if you sign up for an
ATM connection, you must use ATM encapsulation. Other times, there may be some flexibility on the choice of protocol you can use. For example, if you sign up for a point-to-point T1
or an ISDN BRI connection, you can use Cisco HDLC, SLIP, or PPP for your data link
encapsulation. Here is a brief description of each of the encapsulation types.

Serial Line Internet Protocol (SLIP)
SLIP is a standards-based protocol for point-to-point serial connections that use only TCP/IP.
This was primarily used for dial-up connections to the Internet back in the earlier days of the
Internet. It has been widely replaced by PPP.



Chapter 15: Wide Area Networks

Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP)
This protocol has largely replaced SLIP connections for point-to-point WAN connections
and dial-up networking. PPP was released as an improvement to SLIP and added support for
non-TCP/IP protocols and encrypted authentication (among many other features). PPP is the
most popular protocol for connecting ISDN or point-to-point WAN connections.

Cisco High-Level Data Link Control (HDLC)
HDLC was originally designed as an open standard protocol, meaning all routers could support it. However, the open standard version of HDLC was pretty horrible. It did not support
multiple network-layer protocols, which meant that you could support only one protocol (such
as TCP/IP, IPX/SPX, or AppleTalk) over your WAN connection. In view of this shortcoming,
Cisco modified the standard HDLC to support this missing feature. However, anytime a standard is modified, the protocol becomes proprietary. In this case, you can use HDLC only on
Cisco routers to connect to other Cisco routers. HDLC is the default encapsulation on all serial interfaces on Cisco routers. Although HDLC does not have as many features as PPP, it does
offer very low overhead, which makes your WAN connections very efficient.

X.25 Link Access Procedure, Balanced (LAPB)
This encapsulation is used on X.25-based networks, which is the predecessor to Frame Relay.
Although X.25 is used rarely in well-developed countries, it has widespread use in countries
not as technologically advanced.

Frame Relay
This encapsulation relates directly to the Frame Relay WAN connection, which is the faster
successor to X.25. Frame Relay increased its speed capabilities by removing much of the error
correction that is no longer needed on the more reliable circuits of today. Frame Relay has
widespread use in nearly all well-developed areas.

Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM)
This technology is very similar to frame relay, but chops packets into very small pieces (53
bytes each) called cells. Because all the frames are exactly the same size, routers are able to
process them much quicker. ATM also has the capability to run at very fast speeds because it
adapts to run over fiber optic cabling.



PPP

PPP over Ethernet (PPPoE) and PPP over ATM
(PPPoA)
These technologies have been implemented to allow service providers to harness the features
of PPP on an ethernet or ATM connection. This technology is primarily used in DSL highspeed Internet deployments.

EXAM ALERT
The CCNA exam requires you to be familiar with the configuration of HDLC, PPP, and Frame Relay
encapsulation types.

Cisco HDLC
As mentioned previously, HDLC in its truest form is an industry standard created by the
International Organization for Standardization (ISO). These are the same folks who created
the OSI Model (bless their hearts). Because the ISO version of HDLC lacked the support for
multiple protocol use, Cisco modified it and caused HDLC on Cisco routers to become a proprietary protocol.
The beauty of HDLC is that it is very simple and works out of the box. Typically, if you are
deploying a WAN connection with a Cisco router on each side of the link, it eliminates plenty of troubleshooting involved in trying to enable the connection with HDLC, even if you
plan on using PPP in the long run. Because HDLC is so simple, there are no options to negotiate and you can rule it out of any troubleshooting you may encounter. If the link is not coming up, it is usually something on the service provider side of the business.
Because HDLC is enabled by default, you don’t need to perform any additional configuration
for the data link configuration of your serial interfaces. However, if the data link encapsulation was changed to something other than HDLC, you can re-enable HDLC by moving into
interface configuration mode for the serial interface you want to use and type the command
encapsulation hdlc.

PPP
The PPP protocol has become the industry standard for connecting multi-vendor environments over WANs. Whenever people think about using an “industry standard” for anything,
they usually think of the bland, saltine-cracker type of protocol. Surprisingly, PPP defies the
norm and is one of the most feature-packed WAN protocols in existence. Although it functions at the Data Link layer of network connectivity, it comprises multiple sub-protocols that
serve multiple functions. This provides you with a feature-rich connection, even when bringing up a WAN link between non-Cisco devices.



Chapter 15: Wide Area Networks

PPP can function over nearly any type of WAN connection that does not implement its own,
specific mechanism for transporting data (such as frame relay and ATM). This means you can
use PPP to connect if you are using an asynchronous (modem-like) connection or a synchronous (high-speed) point-to-point serial connection. ISDN connections barely function without using the PPP data link encapsulation because ISDN relies on the multilink functionality
of PPP to properly bundle all the individual channels of the circuit into a single, logical connection.
Although PPP fills a single layer on the OSI Model (the Data Link layer), it has multiple “sublayers” that give it all its functionality. Each sub-layer adds specific functionality to the PPP
protocol suite. Figure 15.2 depicts the three PPP sub-layers as they relate to the OSI model.
Notice that all three of these sub-layers fit into the single Data Link layer.

Network Layer

Network Control Protocol
(NCP)

Link Control Protocol
(LCP)

ISO High-Level Data Link Control
(HDLC)

Physical Layer
FIGURE 15.2

PPP sub-layers.

It is easy to get confused when expanding the already confusing OSI model into sub-layers for
a specific protocol. This is just a logical view of the PPP protocol describing how it is able to
include all the functions it advertises. The following sections look at each of these sub-layers,
one at a time.

EXAM ALERT
You need to know the sub-layers of PPP and their functions for the CCNA exam because these directly
relate to the features PPP provides.


PPP

Sub-Layer 1: ISO HDLC
Initially, seeing this layer in PPP seems quite odd. Wasn’t HDLC a competing protocol to
PPP? This sub-layer of PPP comprises the industry standard ISO HDLC. This sub-layer is
responsible for allowing PPP to be supported by multiple devices. It gives the devices that run
PPP common ground to stand on when they communicate with each other. As you will see in
just a moment, the LCP layer above is responsible for negotiating all the features of HDLC.
Because all devices that run HDLC may not support every single feature, the HDLC sub-layer
enables the base PPP communication to continue, even if the platforms support different features.

Sub-Layer 2: Link Control Protocol (LCP)
You can think of the LCP sub-layer as the feature negotiation layer. All the features that PPP
supports are negotiated by LCP. These features are
. Authentication
. Callback
. Compression
. Multilink

EXAM ALERT
Be able to pick the features negotiated by LCP out of a line-up.

Authentication
The authentication features of PPP enable you to require a username and password for the
connecting device to bring up the WAN connection. This is not a very important feature on
leased line, point-to-point connections because the only way a hacker would be able to get a
device connected to the WAN would be to render one of the on-site administrators unconscious and replace the on-site router with one of the hacker’s own. The PPP authentication
features are most useful for dial-up connections that could be reached by users connected to
the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN).
For example, you may choose to connect a modem to your router through the AUX port to
allow dial-up access, should all the LAN and WAN connectivity to the router fail. This
modem would be assigned a phone number, accessible from any computer modem in the
world. PPP authentication would require a username and password to be entered before the
modem connection would bridge a successful connection.


Chapter 15: Wide Area Networks

There are two types of authentication supported by PPP: the Password Authentication
Protocol (PAP) and the Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol (CHAP).
PAP
This authentication protocol is one of the earliest authentication types to be released for WAN
connectivity. If PAP is enabled for the connection, the call flow progresses as follows:
1. Client dials up to a router running PPP.
2. After the link (connection) is established, the client sends its username and password at

the LCP (feature) layer.
3. The PPP router checks the username and password against its user database and allows

or denies the client.
Although this list of three steps is a logical authentication process, it has a few flaws. First off,
the client dictates the timing of sending the username and password; the server (router running PPP) receives the username and password whenever the client decides to send it. This
causes the PAP mechanism to be susceptible to playback attacks. This is a type of attack where
a hacker captures (sniff) packets from a conversation and then plays the packets back in an
attempt to mirror the connection. Because the client is in complete control of the authentication attempt, the server accepts the played-back packets whenever the client decides to send
them.
The authentication of PAP is also done in clear text, which makes it even more vulnerable to
packet-sniffing intruders. Anyone who does have a way of monitoring the connection can capture the packets, break them open, and find the username and password used for authentication in clear text. Can you say, “network devastation”?
With all this being said, the only reason you would choose to use the PAP method for authentication is if you were using very old equipment that did not support the newer method of
authentication, CHAP.
CHAP
CHAP is a much more secure procedure for connecting to a PPP-based system. The authentication process for CHAP goes like this:
1. Client dials up to a router running PPP.
2. The router sends a challenge message to the client.
3. The client responds with the hash of the password it is configured to use.
4. The router looks up the password hash against its database. If the hash matches, the

client is allowed into the network.

18_0789735199_CH15.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 545

545

PPP
5. After the client is authenticated, the router sends re-authentication messages at random

intervals, requiring the client to send the password hash whenever prompted.
Doesn’t that list already make you feel better than PAP? The first thing to notice is that the
router (server) is in control of the authentication process. Rather than accepting the username
and password whenever the client decides to send it, the router demands the username and
password on its timeframe. If the client isn’t ready to ante up with the credentials, the server
immediately terminates the connection. This makes performing a playback attack much more
difficult to accomplish.
Even if a hacker were to successfully execute a playback attack with CHAP, the random
authentication interval ensures the hacker will not be connected for long. Executing the initial
playback attack would require intricate timing for the hacker to be successful. The random
authentication requests would be nearly impossible to keep up.
The clear text issues have also been solved by using a system known as password hashing.
Without getting too deep into cryptography and security mechanisms, you must understand
that this is not the same thing as encrypting a password and sending it across the network.
Given the time, nearly any encryption algorithm can be broken if the data is captured. Using
a hashed version of the password means that the client never actually sends the real password
across the line. To accomplish this, the router (PPP server) and the PPP client must be configured to have the identical password. Before the client sends the password, it runs an irreversible mathematical algorithm on the password. The result of that algorithm is called the
hash, which is sent to the server. The server runs the same algorithm on its password and compares the two hashes. If the answer is the same, the client successfully authenticates.
Now, you may be thinking the same thing I did when I first heard about this process, “Well,
can’t you just get the mathematical formula and reverse it to figure out what the password is
from the hash? For example, if the formula is (the password)× 2 = the hash, could you just take
the (hash÷2) = the password?” Fair question, but just wait until you see the formula. The hashing method (formula) used is known as the MD5 hash. This formula has been engineered with
the sole purpose of being irreversible. With that in mind, someone might capture the password
hash and find out that it is 5,381,120,123,590. Now the trick is to reverse-engineer an irreversible formula to figure out how the algorithm came up with that answer. It would be much
easier for hackers to render the IT staff unconscious at whatever site they were looking to compromise and steal the servers containing the data they needed.

Callback
Just as the name implies, the PPP callback functionality enables a dial-up server (or router)
running PPP to use a predefined number to call the person back who initially dialed into the
location. One of the major advantages of this function is the increased security: It requires the
dial-up user to authenticate and then be present at the predefined phone number to be able to
receive the return call. The other advantage is the toll consolidation. If you have long distance

18_0789735199_CH15.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 546

546

Chapter 15: Wide Area Networks

users dialing into the network, you leave your company at the mercy of the long distance carriers of your users. By using PPP callback, you can ensure that the company long distance
charges are applied, which are typically much lower than normal carrier charges.
A PPP callback process goes through the following steps:
1. A user dials into a router using PPP and authenticates.
2. Upon a successful authentication, the router terminates the connection (typically with-

out any notification) and dials the user back at the predefined number configured by
the administrator.
3. Upon reconnect, the user authenticates a second time.
4. Upon a successful authentication, the user is granted network access.

Compression
When I first heard about compression on a WAN link, my mind flashed back to the days of
the Stacker compression program of Microsoft DOS. This program slowed your computer
down to a crawl to gain a few megabytes of storage space on a hard disk. Surprisingly, one of
the two compression algorithms used on PPP WAN connections is named “Stacker”; however, the effects are much less devastating than they were with the old DOS program.
Using compression to make your WAN connection more efficient is not a new concept. These
technologies have been around since the days of DOS. However, these technologies have
become much more viable on today’s networks because of the increase in CPU and memory
resources on network equipment. The tradeoff when choosing to use compression is that you
gain more WAN bandwidth by sacrificing your router’s processor and memory resources. How
much you sacrifice depends on the type of compression algorithm you use.
Stacker
The compression type analyzes the data that is being sent and replaces continuous streams of
characters with codes. These codes are stored in a dictionary and looked up on the other end
of the connection to rebuild the original data. The Stacker algorithm (which is actually called
Lempel-Ziv) uses a “flat dictionary-style compression.” This means that for every packet of
data, it goes through the same process: Look up the character streams in the dictionary, replace
the characters with codes, begin again. Therefore, it is very good for network connections that
have constantly varying data types (such as SQL, HTTP, FTP, and so on) crossing them. It
doesn’t matter what the previous traffic was; the same compression algorithm is applied. The
Stacker algorithm is notoriously heavy on CPU resources and has less effect on the router’s
memory resources.

18_0789735199_CH15.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 547

547

PPP

Predictor
This compression algorithm received its name because it literally attempts to predict the next
character stream that will be sent or received. It uses a similar dictionary lookup process as
Stacker; however, it takes the most common characters looked up and builds a cached index
file. Anytime some traffic needs to be sent or received, the index file is checked first. If the
character stream (or codes) is not found in the index file, it then consults the full dictionary to
find the necessary compression or decompression algorithm. Therefore, the Predictor algorithm works best on network connections that have fairly similar traffic patterns (that can be
cached in the index file). For example, perhaps you have a WAN link back to a central office
that houses an intranet server that users access to update the corporate e-commerce website.
In this case, the traffic patterns would be very similar (HTTP/HTTPS) for most times of the
day. The Predictor algorithm usually uses more memory resources and has less effect on the
router’s CPU than the Stacker algorithm (as long as the traffic patterns do not vary largely).
Microsoft Point-to-Point Compression
Microsoft has its own compression algorithm for PPP, aptly named the Microsoft Point-toPoint Compression (MPPC). This protocol offers slightly improved processor and bandwidth
utilization for Microsoft Windows–based clients. Because other devices, such as Cisco routers,
would need to support this compression algorithm for Microsoft Windows to use it, Microsoft
released the algorithm as an RFC standard (RFC 2118). Under the licensing in this RFC,
Microsoft permits other vendors to implement MPPC solely for the purpose of connecting to
other MPCC clients. MPPC therefore is used only to allow Windows dial-up users to use
compression.

Multilink
PPP multilink enables you to bundle multiple WAN connections (or WAN channels in the
case of ISDN) into a single, logical connection. This could be as small as bundling
two 33.6Kbps modems together to make a 67.2Kbps connection, or bundling four T1 lines
together to give yourself a 6.176Mbps connection. The separate interfaces that are bundled
together are no longer seen as individual interfaces, but rather join a larger “logical” multilink
interface. You can assign this single interface its own IP address, configure authentication, or
optimize the logical line with compression. It acts and feels like a real interface, even though
it could potentially comprise many physical links.
There are two major benefits to using Multilink PPP (MLPPP). First off, the logical link
becomes a single point of management. Rather than figuring out what the traffic utilization is
on all the individual physical lines, you can focus your monitoring software (if you have some)
on just a single interface. The second benefit to MLPPP is the fact that all physical links bundled in the logical group get exact load balancing. When I say “exact,” I mean the down-tothe-exact-bit-level kind of exact. MLPPP chops all your packets (referred to as fragmentation)
into exactly equal sizes before it sends them across the line. This leads to the one drawback of
using MLPPP: slightly increased processor and memory utilization on your router.

18_0789735199_CH15.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 548

548

Chapter 15: Wide Area Networks

Sub-Layer 3: Network Control Protocol
The final sub-layer of PPP is what gives it the functionality to allow multiple Network layer
protocols to run across a single WAN link at any given time. I think of this layer as the PPP
DUPLO® LEGO® block connector. Have you ever seen the DUPLO® blocks for small
children? They all have that standard connector with which any other DUPLO® can connect
so the child can put any two pieces together (which provides positive affirmation, I’m sure). In
that same sense, the Network Control Protocol (NCP) sub-layer of PPP has open-source, network-layer connectors that anyone can plug into. For example, the TCP/IP protocol has a
connector called IPCP (the CP stands for “control protocol”) that enables TCP/IP to run
across a PPP WAN link. IPX/SPX has a connector called IPXCP. With the open-source
nature of this protocol, I could create a “Jeremy protocol” and then write a JeremyCP to allow
it to run across a PPP WAN link. Cisco has written its own extension called CDPCP that
enables the Cisco Discovery Protocol to run across a PPP WAN link, which enables the
routers on each end of the connection to use CDP to see each other.

Configuring PPP
The configuration of PPP without any options does not even deserve its own section. All you
need to do is access the interface you would like to enable to run PPP and type the command
encapsulation ppp. After you do that on both sides of the connection, you’re finished. For
example, if I wanted to configure PPP on the Serial 0 interface of a router, here is the process:
AccessServer#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line.
AccessServer(config)#interface serial 0
AccessServer(config-if)#encapsulation ppp

End with CNTL/Z.

After you begin turning on the options, the configuration can get a little more complex. This
chapter discusses turning on PPP authentication and compression. PPP multilink is covered
in the ISDN chapter because it is more conducive to the ISDN technology.

Authentication
The CCNA exam focuses on configuring PPP authentication between two Cisco routers
rather than using authentication for dial-up users (this is covered in the Building Cisco Remote
Access Networks CCNP course). Typically, when Cisco routers are performing authentication
on a WAN link, the routers will be configured as two-way authentication. Two-way authentication means that both routers authenticate each other. Typically, when a dial-up user connects
to a router, one-way authentication is performed (the user must authenticate to the Cisco
router, not vice-versa).

18_0789735199_CH15.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 549

549

Configuring PPP

To set up CHAP PPP authentication, you must do the following:
1. Turn on PPP encapsulation.
2. Configure the necessary hostname for the authenticating routers.
3. Create user accounts on each side of the connection.
4. Turn on CHAP PPP authentication.

At first, these steps may seem somewhat cryptic, but let me walk you through a configuration
example and explain how all these pieces fit together. Refer to Figure 15.3 for a visual of this
example configuration.
Serial0 – 10.2.2.1
Serial0 – 10.2.2.2
Hostname: Robin

Hostname: Pigeon

FIGURE 15.3

PPP authentication example.

This sample configuration enables two-way, CHAP PPP authentication between the Robin
and Pigeon routers. For the sake of brevity, assume the router hostnames are already configured and PPP encapsulation has been enabled under the serial interfaces.
Before you begin, you need to understand the significance of the router hostname. By default,
when a Cisco router attempts to authenticate with another router, it uses the router hostname
as its PPP username to authenticate with the other side. In this example, the router with the
hostname “Robin” crosses the PPP link and attempts to authenticate with the Pigeon router,
using the username “Robin.” The Pigeon router attempts to authenticate with the Robin
router, using the username “Pigeon.” You therefore need to create user accounts on each
router that match the usernames the routers will use when authenticating. The following syntax accomplishes this:
Pigeon#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
Pigeon(config)#username Robin password cisco
Robin#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
Robin(config)#username Pigeon password cisco

Now, when the Robin router comes over to the Pigeon router and says “My username is
Robin,” the Pigeon router has a user database that identifies that username. Likewise, the
Pigeon router can now authenticate the Robin router. If you have any experience with
Windows administration, this is an identical concept to creating user accounts for people to
log on to their PCs.

18_0789735199_CH15.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 550

550

Chapter 15: Wide Area Networks

CAUTION
The CHAP username and passwords are both case sensitive. If the hostname of your router begins with a
capital letter, ensure you create the user account the same way.

When using CHAP authentication, you must use the same password for both user accounts.
In this case, both the Pigeon and Robin router share the password “cisco.” It must remain the
same on both sides because CHAP never actually sends the password across the wire; it sends
only the MD5 hash version of it. When the receiving side gets the hash, it runs the MD5 algorithm on its own password and compares the two hashes. If they match, authentication succeeds. The following is the complete configuration of both the Pigeon and Robin routers to
enable CHAP PPP authentication:
Pigeon#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
Pigeon(config)#username Robin password cisco
Pigeon(config)#interface serial 0
Pigeon(config-if)#encapsulation ppp
Pigeon(config-if)#ppp authentication chap
Robin#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
Robin(config)#username Pigeon password cisco
Robin(config)#interface serial 0
Robin(config-if)#encapsulation ppp
Robin(config-if)#ppp authentication chap

Compression
Enabling PPP compression is a piece of cake. You just have to make sure that both sides of the
connection enable it; if only one side of the connection enables it, the link fails. Using the
Pigeon and Robin scenario again, the following shows the steps you can take to enable compression:
Pigeon#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line.
Pigeon(config)#interface serial 0
Pigeon(config-if)#compress ?
mppc
MPPC compression type
predictor predictor compression type
stac
stac compression algorithm
<cr>

End with CNTL/Z.

That’s it! Just use the compress command and type the mode of compression you would like
to use, and let the bandwidth savings begin.

18_0789735199_CH15.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 551

551

Verifying PPP

Verifying PPP
To ensure your PPP connection came up successfully, you can always use the ol’ faithful show
ip interface brief command.
Pigeon#show ip interface brief
Interface
IP-Address
FastEthernet0
10.1.1.2
Serial0
10.2.2.2

OK? Method Status
YES NVRAM up
YES manual up

Protocol
up
up

In this case, all is well with the Serial 0 PPP connection between the routers because the
Protocol is stated as up. Remember, the Status column generally dictates the Physical layer
connectivity, whereas the Protocol column focuses on the Data Link connectivity.
If you want to get a little more in depth with the PPP negotiation on the interface, issue the
show interface <interface> command as follows:
Pigeon#show interface serial 0
Serial0 is up, line protocol is up
Hardware is PowerQUICC Serial
Internet address is 10.2.2.2/24
MTU 1500 bytes, BW 1544 Kbit, DLY 20000 usec,
reliability 255/255, txload 1/255, rxload 1/255
Encapsulation PPP, loopback not set
Keepalive set (10 sec)
LCP Open
Open: IPCP, CCP, CDPCP
Last input 00:00:51, output 00:00:01, output hang never
Last clearing of “show interface” counters 05:07:30
Input queue: 0/75/0/0 (size/max/drops/flushes); Total output drops: 0
Queueing strategy: weighted fair
Output queue: 0/1000/64/0 (size/max total/threshold/drops)
Conversations 0/1/256 (active/max active/max total)
Reserved Conversations 0/0 (allocated/max allocated)
Available Bandwidth 1158 kilobits/sec
5 minute input rate 0 bits/sec, 0 packets/sec
5 minute output rate 0 bits/sec, 0 packets/sec
4127 packets input, 168000 bytes, 0 no buffer
Received 0 broadcasts, 0 runts, 0 giants, 0 throttles
84 input errors, 0 CRC, 84 frame, 0 overrun, 0 ignored, 0 abort
8196 packets output, 404090 bytes, 0 underruns
0 output errors, 0 collisions, 163 interface resets
0 output buffer failures, 0 output buffers swapped out
326 carrier transitions
DCD=up DSR=up DTR=up RTS=up CTS=up

As you can see from the output above, the router has negotiated Link Control Protocol (LCP)
options, which is indicated by the LCP Open state. If the LCP negotiations had failed (most

18_0789735199_CH15.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 552

552

Chapter 15: Wide Area Networks

likely because of an authentication problem), the LCP state would rotate between Listen,
ACKSent, or TERMSent. This is the Cisco router trying to go through the negotiation of the
LCP options. In the line below LCP Open, you can verify all the Network layer communication occurring across the PPP link. In this case, you can see IPCP (indicates the TCP/IP protocol), CCP (Indicates compression is in effect—compressed control protocol [CCP]), and
CDPCP (indicates the Cisco Discovery Protocol [CDP]). Technically, CDP is a Data Link
protocol; however, Cisco adopted it to connect into the PPP options as a Layer 3 protocol.

EXAM ALERT
Be able to interpret the show interface command output as it relates to the PPP options.

Finally, if you would like to see how your PPP compression is working out, you can type the
command show compress. This gives you the compression statistics for the line:
Pigeon#show compress
Serial0
Software compression enabled
uncompressed bytes xmt/rcv 4215/4956
compressed
bytes xmt/rcv 0/0
1 min avg ratio xmt/rcv 0.223/4.621
5 min avg ratio xmt/rcv 0.284/4.621
10 min avg ratio xmt/rcv 0.270/1.372
no bufs xmt 0 no bufs rcv 0
resyncs 0

In this case, you have no compressed bytes because all the traffic sent over the PPP link was
generated by the routers themselves (this traffic is exempt from compression).

Troubleshooting PPP
Whenever you reach the troubleshooting section for any topic, you can be guaranteed some
debug output. In this case, the debug commands for PPP are pretty darn useful: Most of the
output is easy to understand. The most useful command that I have found to troubleshoot a
PPP link is the debug ppp negotiation command. Check out this output:
Pigeon#debug ppp negotiation
1d02h: Se0 PPP: Using default call direction
1d02h: Se0 PPP: Treating connection as a dedicated line
1d02h: Se0 PPP: Phase is ESTABLISHING, Active Open [0 sess, 1 load]
1d02h: Se0 LCP: O CONFREQ [Closed] id 157 len 15
1d02h: Se0 LCP:
AuthProto CHAP (0x0305C22305)
1d02h: Se0 LCP:
MagicNumber 0x0709760C (0x05060709760C)
1d02h: Se0 LCP: I CONFREQ [REQsent] id 208 len 15

18_0789735199_CH15.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 553

553

Troubleshooting PPP
1d02h: Se0 LCP:
AuthProto CHAP (0x0305C22305)
1d02h: Se0 LCP:
MagicNumber 0x22D5B7B3 (0x050622D5B7B3)
1d02h: Se0 LCP: O CONFACK [REQsent] id 208 len 15
1d02h: Se0 LCP:
AuthProto CHAP (0x0305C22305)
1d02h: Se0 LCP:
MagicNumber 0x22D5B7B3 (0x050622D5B7B3)
1d02h: Se0 LCP: TIMEout: State ACKsent
1d02h: Se0 LCP: O CONFREQ [ACKsent] id 158 len 15
1d02h: Se0 LCP:
AuthProto CHAP (0x0305C22305)
1d02h: Se0 LCP:
MagicNumber 0x0709760C (0x05060709760C)
1d02h: Se0 LCP: I CONFACK [ACKsent] id 158 len 15
1d02h: Se0 LCP:
AuthProto CHAP (0x0305C22305)
1d02h: Se0 LCP:
MagicNumber 0x0709760C (0x05060709760C)
1d02h: Se0 LCP: State is Open
1d02h: Se0 PPP: Phase is AUTHENTICATING, by both [0 sess, 1 load]
1d02h: Se0 CHAP: O CHALLENGE id 156 len 27 from “Pigeon”
1d02h: Se0 CHAP: I CHALLENGE id 2 len 26 from “Robin”
1d02h: Se0 CHAP: O RESPONSE id 2 len 27 from “Pigeon”
1d02h: Se0 CHAP: I RESPONSE id 156 len 26 from “Robin”
1d02h: Se0 CHAP: O SUCCESS id 156 len 4
1d02h: Se0 CHAP: I SUCCESS id 2 len 4
1d02h: Se0 PPP: Phase is UP [0 sess, 1 load]
1d02h: Se0 IPCP: O CONFREQ [Closed] id 4 len 10
1d02h: Se0 IPCP:
Address 10.2.2.2 (0x03060A020202)
1d02h: Se0 CCP: O CONFREQ [Closed] id 4 len 6
1d02h: Se0 CCP:
Predictor1 (0x0102)
1d02h: Se0 CDPCP: O CONFREQ [Closed] id 4 len 4
1d02h: Se0 IPCP: I CONFREQ [REQsent] id 5 len 10
1d02h: Se0 IPCP:
Address 10.2.2.1 (0x03060A020201)
1d02h: Se0 IPCP: O CONFACK [REQsent] id 5 len 10
1d02h: Se0 IPCP:
Address 10.2.2.1 (0x03060A020201)
1d02h: Se0 CCP: I CONFREQ [REQsent] id 2 len 6
1d02h: Se0 CCP:
Predictor1 (0x0102)
1d02h: Se0 CCP: O CONFACK [REQsent] id 2 len 6
1d02h: Se0 CCP:
Predictor1 (0x0102)
1d02h: Se0 CDPCP: I CONFREQ [REQsent] id 5 len 4
1d02h: Se0 CDPCP: O CONFACK [REQsent] id 5 len 4
1d02h: Se0 IPCP: I CONFACK [ACKsent] id 4 len 10
1d02h: Se0 IPCP:
Address 10.2.2.2 (0x03060A020202)
1d02h: Se0 IPCP: State is Open
1d02h: Se0 CCP: I CONFACK [ACKsent] id 4 len 6
1d02h: Se0 CCP:
Predictor1 (0x0102)
1d02h: Se0 CCP: State is Open
1d02h: Se0 CDPCP: I CONFACK [ACKsent] id 4 len 4
1d02h: Se0 CDPCP: State is Open
1d02h: Se0 IPCP: Install route to 10.2.2.1
1d02h: %LINEPROTO-5-UPDOWN: Line protocol on Interface Serial0,
➥changed state to up

18_0789735199_CH15.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 554

554

Chapter 15: Wide Area Networks

Isn’t that some great stuff?!? Okay, it does take a little bit of screening through all the output,
but if you look about halfway through, you can see the exchange of the Robin and Pigeon hostnames. This shows the challenge/response action of the CHAP protocol. Thankfully, you can
see a SUCCESS message to finish it off, showing the Pigeon and Robin routers have successfully authenticated each other. Near the bottom of the output, you see the CCP (compression
negotiation) negotiate the Predictor algorithm between the two routers. Finally, at the end of
the output, you see the link come up.
If your PPP connection is failing, this debug command will definitely show you the cause
(as long as the failure is related to PPP). Another popular command is debug ppp
authentication, which gives the same output, but slims it down to just the authentication
information (because this is where many failures occur).

18_0789735199_CH15.qxd

11/30/05

12:25 PM

Page 555

555

Chapter Summary

Chapter Summary
Managing WAN connections is one of the primary functions of a router. WAN connections
tie distant locations together into a common network infrastructure. Choosing a WAN connection has become more difficult in recent years because there are now many more WAN
connection technologies at our disposal. However, the most popular WAN connection technologies boil down to three main categories: Leased Lines, Circuit Switched, and Packet
Switched.
After you have chosen the Physical connection type you would like to use, you can then move
up to the Data Link connectivity. For leased line and ISDN connections, the two major protocols in use today are HDLC and PPP. On a Cisco router, HDLC has been modified to support multiple upper-layer protocols and has thus become proprietary. HDLC’s major feature
is the low amount of network overhead it causes on the WAN connection. Other than that, it
is featureless. PPP is the more popular data link protocol because it supports multi-vendor
interoperability and a plethora of features.

Key Terms
. leased lines

. PPP over Ethernet (PPPoE)

. packet-switched networks

. PPP over ATM (PPPoA)

. circuit-switched networks

. V.35

. broadband

. X.21

. Virtual Private Networks (VPNs)

. EIA/TIA-232, -449, and -530

. Integrated Services Digital Network

. Link Control Protocol (LCP)

(ISDN)
. metro ethernet
. X.25
. Frame Relay
. Asychronous Transfer Mode (ATM)
. High-level Data Link Control

(HDLC)
. Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP)

. Network Control Protocol (NCP)
. Password Authentication Protocol

(PAP)
. Challenge Handshake Authentication

Protocol (CHAP)
. stacker compression
. predictor compression
. Microsoft Point-to-Point

Compression (MPPC)

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 568

568

Chapter 16: ISDN

Introduction
If we were talking about the Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) a decade ago, this
chapter would have started out something like this, “Are you ready for the technology that will
blow your socks off? Do you have a need for speed? Would you like to be the envy of all other
network administrators? Well let me tell you about ISDN…” Unfortunately, it is not a decade
ago, so you’ll just have to settle for, “This is the ISDN chapter.”
As its name implies, ISDN was originally designed to integrate multiple services (voice and
data) through a single medium. Rather than purchase voice and data service as separate bundles, a network could purchase a single connection through the same local carrier that provided both services through a single line. Because ISDN connections use the same cable as the
local telephone company, it is still considered today as one of the most reliable connections
available. Even though ISDN uses the telephone company as a backbone, it offers improved
communication by using end-to-end digital signaling. When you normally are speaking on the
telephone, you are using analog signals, which travel to the phone company and are converted into a digital format. Although this works fine for voice, it can impede the quality of data
communications because analog signals are more susceptible to interference and loss. ISDN
brings the digital signal all the way down to the end-user, which results in a cleaner, higherquality signal.
So why do I start by saying, “This is the ISDN chapter” rather than my typical overly excited
self? Because ISDN is ever so slowly making an exit from mainstream networking. ISDN services have been largely displaced by broadband Internet services, such as DSL, cable modem,
and satellite services. The most popular flavor of ISDN (BRI) is now becoming very difficult
to find in the United States. So why are we learning about it? For two primary reasons: First,
ISDN is still quite popular overseas. Second, ISDN makes a fantastic backup connection.
Third, because Cisco still asks ISDN questions on the CCNA exam.

EXAM ALERT
ISDN is slowly making an exit from mainstream Cisco exams. Cisco has already pulled ISDN from their
flagship CCIE Routing and Switching certification exam. You can expect to be tested rather lightly on
ISDN, if at all.

I hope you are still reading and have not flipped to some other chapter after that last test tip.
The concepts used in ISDN are useful for many other network technologies.

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 569

569

The Flavors of ISDN

The Flavors of ISDN
ISDN connections come in two primary flavors: Basic Rate Interface (BRI) and Primary Rate
Interface (PRI). To understand the difference between these two, you first need to understand
the building blocks of ISDN connections.
ISDN connections are built with a combination of B-channels (bearer) and a D-channel
(delta). Each B-channel gives the equivalent of 64Kbps of bandwidth that can be used to send
or receive data. The D-channel is used for signaling. It can be 16Kbps or 64Kbps, depending
on the flavor of ISDN you choose to implement. The signaling channel keeps multiple Bchannels in line by transmitting all the control information related to those channels. The Dchannel is not used to send your network traffic between your locations, but rather, controls
the channels that send the network traffic. By combining multiple B-channels together along
with a single D-channel, you build your ISDN connection.
In addition, the D-channel is always connected to the service provider. Because ISDN is a
circuit-switched connection, it is considered a dial-on-demand technology. When you need
the connection, you dial a phone number to have it connect. When you’re finished with the
connection, the line is hung up. If you have ever heard a modem dial, you’ll realize that it is
not a fast process. For a modem connection to dial, connect, and begin sending data, it could
take anywhere from 30–60 seconds. In our high-speed network world, this type of delay is
unacceptable. When using ISDN connections, the dialing process can take less than a second
because the D-channel is the one doing the dialing and this channel is always connected to the
service provider.

EXAM ALERT
Know the difference between B-channels and the D-channel.

BRI Connections
ISDN BRI connections comprise two 64Kbps B-channels and one 16Kbps D-channel. This
gives the connection 128Kbps total bandwidth that can be used for data traffic. BRI connections used to be quite popular for backup connections in the United States, but have slowly
been replaced by cheaper DSL and cable modem connections combined with VPN technology. Outside the United States, ISDN BRI connections are still quite prevalent.
Because they fall in the circuit-switched category, ISDN BRI connections typically use dialon-demand technology. Because these connections are billed on a per-minute basis, keeping
them continually connected usually is not an option. When the connection is needed, the
router automatically dials through to the destination. When the connection has not been used
for a certain amount of time, the link is broken. Because routers are constantly chatty devices

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 570

570

Chapter 16: ISDN

(sending routing updates, keepalives, and other miscellaneous messages), they can tend to keep
the line continuously active without using your configuration expertise to prevent these traffic
types from crossing the ISDN connection. Later in this chapter, you will learn how to properly and efficiently implement ISDN.

PRI Connections
ISDN PRI connections are composed of 23 64Kbps B-channels and a single 64Kbps Dchannel. This is the ISDN equivalent of a T1 line. This brings me to a pretty big point: Don’t
get lost in the “T1 line” concept. Many people think that a T1 line is a type of WAN connection. “I’ll have a T1 line with the red sauce on the side,” is the feeling I get when hearing how
most people describe a T1 connection. Saying something like that would be like walking into
a seafood restaurant and saying, “I’ll take a fish.” To which the waiter would promptly respond,
“What sort of fish?” T1 is just a measure of bandwidth, 1.544Mbps to be exact. The technology that gets it to you is another story. You could purchase a T1 Frame Relay connection or a
T1 CAS connection. In this chapter, I am talking about a T1 ISDN connection. Depending
on your location, an ISDN T1 connection may be the only type of T1 you’ll be able to get.
ISDN is one of the most widespread technologies available.
ISDN PRI connections give you slightly less bandwidth than other T1 technologies because
of the signaling channel. Most other T1 connections use Channel Associated Signaling (CAS),
which enables you to combine your signaling along with the data you are sending. This is
slightly more efficient than the Common Channel Signaling (CCS) method ISDN uses. If you
need additional bandwidth (beyond what a single ISDN PRI connection gives you), you can
add more PRI lines to your bundle (remember, ISDN PRI are just a bunch of B-channels) and
still use only a single 64Kbps D-channel for signaling.

EXAM ALERT
Know the number of B-channels and D-channels in BRI and PRI connections. To review:
Basic Rate Interface (BRI): 1 D-channel, 2 B-channels
Primary Rate Interface (PRI): 1 D-channel, 23 B-channels
It is also worth mentioning that in Europe, PRI lines are given 30 B-channels (this is known as an E1
speed).

ISDN Signaling Protocols
The initial WAN chapter (Chapter 15, “Wide Area Networks”) discussed two major technologies: HDLC and PPP. These are both Data Link layer (Layer 2) communications that
must match on both sides of the connection. ISDN does not use either HDLC or PPP. It uses
two protocols known as Q.921 and Q.931. The creator of these ISDN standards was very kind

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 571

571

ISDN Reference Points and Equipment

because he tells you at what layer the protocol works right in the name: Q.921 works at Layer
2 (Data Link) and Q.931 works at Layer 3 (Network). It is very odd to have a WAN protocol
that works above Layer 2, which is where Q.931 operates. The following sections discuss the
function of both of these protocols.

ISDN Reference Points and Equipment
Before you get into the configuration of ISDN interfaces, you need to understand the architecture of how ISDN connections connect into the office. Anytime you talk about ISDN,
you’ll see the diagram in Figure 16.1 pop up somewhere.
Local
Loop
S

TE1

NT-2

T

NT-1

U

Service
Provider
Network

ISDN Terminal

TE2
R
Existing
Terminal

TA
Terminal
Adapter

ISDN
equipment and reference points.
FIGURE 16.1

When looking at this diagram, you can either get really deep into architecture, standards, and
all other sorts of mish-mash. However, I prefer to keep things practical because this model
can be quite useful if applied in that way. So here’s how things work:
Imagine that you need an ISDN connection for your company. You call up an ISDN service
provider, who is usually the telephone service provider in your area. They tell you ISDN service is available and then quote you some insanely priced installation charges. Reluctantly, you
agree. The ISDN service technician arrives at your location and runs a new tap from the local
loop to your property. The local loop is just the underground (or above-ground) line that all
people tap into in your area to get telephone service. The line is then run to your business
premises and neatly cabled into a wall jack in the room of your choice. If you take a look back
at Figure 16.1, we are currently talking about the line labeled U. That wall jack is most likely the service provider’s demarcation point. If anything breaks on your side of the wall jack,
you’ll be paying for repairs. If anything breaks on the service provider’s side of the wall jack,
you’ll probably also pay for the repairs because the service provider will think of some way to
make you believe that the problem on their side of the wall jack was caused by something on
your side of the wall jack. But that’s another part of the story.

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 572

572

Chapter 16: ISDN

So you’re sitting in your chair, looking at the new ISDN wall jack. You decide to take some
action and plug an RJ-45 ethernet cable into the wall jack and run it to a new ISDN interface
you just installed in your Cisco router. The type of ISDN interface you install can be different
based on where you are in the world. If you are in the United States, you are expected to supply your own Network Termination, Type 1 (NT-1). This little device takes the two-wire ISDN
line that comes in from the service provider and converts it to a four-wire connection that your
internal equipment can use. Thankfully, Cisco has produced ISDN U Interfaces for your router
that includes an integrated NT-1. The alternative interface you can purchase is an ISDN S/T
Interface, which does not have an integrated NT-1 component. You would use this type of interface if you either purchased a standalone NT-1 device (a company called AdTran makes the
most popular NT-1), or you live in Europe, where the service provider provides the NT-1 for
you (those lucky dogs).
For sake of this example, imagine that you purchased a standalone NT-1 device and an S/T
interface for your router. Now, this is where you have some flexibility in choosing to connect
your ISDN line to one of three different device types. You can plug it directly into your
router’s ISDN S/T interface and, after some configuration, the router happily begins routing
for the ISDN line. At that point, your router is filling the role of a Terminal Endpoint, Type 1
(TE1), which is considered an ISDN-compatible terminal that is capable of handling a raw
ISDN signal. By the way, the S/T interface is called an “S/T” interface because it represents
the S and T reference points in the diagram in Figure 16.1. You could also choose to connect
the cable from the NT-1 box to a Network Termination, Type 2 (NT-2) device. This is just an
ISDN PBX, or to put it more in network terms, it’s like a hub for ISDN connections. It enables
you to take your ISDN line and split it off to multiple devices. An NT-2 can even take multiple incoming ISDN lines and aggregate them together into a higher-bandwidth connection.
You don’t have to have an NT-2 device (most people don’t); it is just an option you can use.
The third type of device that you can connect to the cable coming from the NT-1 is a PC. Or
it can be a server. Or it can even be a Microsoft Xbox or Sony Playstation 2. These are all
considered Terminal Endpoint, Type 2 (TE2) in the network diagram. These devices cannot
understand a raw ISDN signal, so you need to squeeze a Terminal Adapter (TA) in between the
NT-1 cable and the TE2 device. The TA is responsible for taking non-ISDN interfaces and
signaling and converting them to something ISDN can understand.
So, let’s summarize all these different pieces of the ISDN network:
. Network Termination, Type 1 (NT-1)—Converts from the two-wire ISDN line the

service provider installs in your location to a four-wire connection that your internal
devices can use.
. Network Termination, Type 2 (NT-2)—This optional device enables you to either

split the ISDN signal or aggregate multiple ISDN connections into a single stream.
. Terminal Endpoint, Type 1 (TE1)—This is an ISDN-compatible endpoint, such as a

router with an ISDN S/T or U interface.

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 573

573

Configuring BRI Interfaces
. Terminal Endpoint, Type 2 (TE2)—This is an non-ISDN compatible endpoint,

such as a router with no ISDN interfaces or an end-user PC, requiring a Terminal
Adapter (TA) to understand the ISDN signal, such as a router with no ISDN interfaces
or an end-user PC.
. Terminal Adapter (TA)—This device converts an ISDN signal into some other type

of signaling.

EXAM ALERT
These ISDN components may be lightly tested during the CCNA exam. They are heavily tested in the
Building Cisco Remote Access Networks (BCRAN) CCNP exam.

Configuring BRI Interfaces
It can be difficult to talk about the configuration of ISDN in one “Configuring BRI
Interfaces” section. There are so many technologies that come together to make ISDN function, you can start to get lost and ask the question, “Is this really part of ISDN, or some other
feature enhancement?” For example, getting the ISDN link between you and your service
provider to activate is a piece of cake: Type in two commands and you’re good to go. However,
for your router to know what networks are on the other side of the connection, you need to
set up static routes, which deal with IP routing. To use the static routes, you need to set up a
dialer-map to dictate what phone number to dial to reach the networks on the other side,
which deals with Dial-on-Demand routing. So, configuring ISDN itself is simple; it’s configuring all the other pieces around it that can add the complexity. I’ll start here with the simple
stuff, and add the additional pieces as we go. To set the stage, imagine you’ve purchased an
ISDN card and plugged it into your router. After you have installed an ISDN BRI interface
into your router, it shows up as three different interfaces:
Lance#show ip interface brief
Interface
IP-Address
BRI0
unassigned
BRI0:1
unassigned
BRI0:2
unassigned
Ethernet0
unassigned
Serial0
unassigned
Serial1
unassigned
Serial2
unassigned
Serial3
unassigned

OK? Method Status
Protocol
YES unset administratively down down
YES unset administratively down down
YES unset administratively down down
YES unset administratively down down
YES unset administratively down down
YES unset administratively down down
YES unset administratively down down
YES unset administratively down down

Each interface represents a single channel of the connection. Remember BRI = two B channels, and a single D channel is used for signaling. In this case, the BRI0 interface represents
the D channel; the entire logical configuration, such as IP address, encapsulation, and so on,

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 574

574

Chapter 16: ISDN

is applied to this interface. The two other interfaces, BRI0:1 and BRI0:2, represent the two B
channels. These act like well-trained dogs: When the D channel tells them to sit, they sit.
When told to connect to another router, they connect to another router. They just take orders
from the signaling channel that you configure.

ISDN Switch Type
The first step in configuring the ISDN interface is to configure the ISDN switch type on your
router. Take a look:
Lance#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
Lance(config)#isdn switch-type ?
basic-1tr6
1TR6 switch type for Germany
basic-5ess
AT&T 5ESS switch type for the U.S.
basic-dms100 Northern DMS-100 switch type
basic-net3
NET3 switch type for UK and Europe
basic-ni
National ISDN switch type
basic-ts013
TS013 switch type for Australia
ntt
NTT switch type for Japan
vn3
VN3 and VN4 switch types for France
<cr>

Which of these ISDN switch types should you choose? Whatever your service provider tells
you to choose. These are all the different ISDN service provider switches that are in mainline
use in the world today. Your switch type depends heavily on your location and the service
provider you use. Don’t think of these switch types in terms of better or worse; they all perform the same role. Just think of them as competing standards.
You may have noticed that this is a Global Configuration command. After you configure a
switch type, all ISDN interfaces installed into this router use this single switch type. In an
extraordinarily rare circumstance, you may have a single router connected to two different
ISDN service providers that use different ISDN switch types. In this case, this command
would be applied under the BRI configuration mode. Any ISDN switch type settings you set
up under the interface overrule the ISDN switch type settings in Global Configuration mode.

SPIDs
After you have configured the ISDN switch type, the ISDN-specific settings are nearly complete. All you need to do is find out whether your service provider requires you to provide
Service Provider IDentifiers (SPIDs) for the connection. A SPID is a number that you provide
the service provider when you dial up your connection to identify yourself. You could consider it your User ID for the connection. Although it does provide some security for the service

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 575

575

Configuring BRI Interfaces

provider, they primarily use the SPID number(s) for billing purposes because ISDN connections are billed on a per-minute basis. If your service provider uses SPIDs, you dial up the connection, provide your SPID number(s) and the billing begins.
To configure SPIDs on your router, you need to access the BRI configuration mode. Take a
look:
ISDN_Router#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
ISDN_Router(config)#interface BRI 0
ISDN_Router(config-if)#isdn ?
all-incoming-calls-v120 Answer all incoming calls as V.120
answer1
Specify Called Party number and subaddress
answer2
Specify Called Party number and subaddress
caller
Specify incoming telephone number to be verified
calling-number
Specify Calling Number included for outgoing
fast-rollover-delay
Delay between fastrollover dials
incoming-voice
Specify options for incoming calls.
not-end-to-end
Specify speed when calls received are not isdn
outgoing-voice
Specify information transfer capability
send-alerting
Specify if Alerting message to be sent out before
Connect message
sending-complete
Specify if Sending Complete included in outgoing
SETUP message
spid1
Specify Service Profile IDentifier
spid2
Specify Service Profile IDentifier
static-tei
Specify a Static TEI for ISDN BRI
switch-type
Select the Interface ISDN switch type
tei-negotiation
Set when ISDN TEI negotiation should occur
timeout-signaling
Flush D channel if a signaling packet can’t be
transmitted in 1 second
twait-disable
Delay National ISDN BRI switchtype
x25
Configure x25 over the D channel
ISDN_Router(config-if)#isdn spid1 ?
WORD spid1 string
ISDN_Router(config-if)#isdn spid1 115529
ISDN_Router(config-if)#isdn spid2 115530

As you can see, we have two different SPID numbers (spid1 and spid2). Depending on your
service provider, you might have no SPIDs, one SPID, or two SPIDs. They’ll give you the
information; you just type it into your router.
After you have added your SPID information, you have enough configurations to bring up the
D-channel of the ISDN connection with the service provider.

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 576

576

Chapter 16: ISDN

ISDN BRI Practical Example
Now take a look at a full example of what you’ve seen so far, adding a few other components
to the picture that you’ve seen in prior chapters. For now, there is just a single router named
Buttercup connected to a service provider that has been set up for ISDN. The service provider
has an ISDN switch type of basic-5ess and requires a single SPID of 5550112.
Buttercup#show ip interface brief
Interface
IP-Address
OK? Method Status
Protocol
BRI0
unassigned
YES unset administratively down down
BRI0:1
unassigned
YES unset administratively down down
BRI0:2
unassigned
YES unset administratively down down
Ethernet0
unassigned
YES unset administratively down down
Serial0
unassigned
YES unset administratively down down
Serial1
unassigned
YES unset administratively down down
Serial2
unassigned
YES unset administratively down down
Serial3
unassigned
YES unset administratively down down
Buttercup#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
Buttercup(config)#interface bri 0
Buttercup(config-if)#ip address 10.1.1.1 255.255.255.0
Buttercup(config-if)#encapsulation ppp
Buttercup(config-if)#isdn switch-type basic-5ess
Buttercup(config-if)#isdn spid1 5550112
Buttercup(config-if)#no shutdown
Buttercup(config-if)#
00:18:51: isdn_Call_disconnect()
00:18:51: %LINK-3-UPDOWN: Interface BRI0:1, changed state to down
00:18:51: isdn_Call_disconnect()
00:18:51: %LINK-3-UPDOWN: Interface BRI0:2, changed state to down
00:18:51: %LINK-3-UPDOWN: Interface BRI0, changed state to up
Buttercup(config-if)#
00:18:51: %ISDN-6-LAYER2UP: Layer 2 for Interface BR0, TEI 66 changed to up
Buttercup(config-if)#^Z
Buttercup#
00:19:29: %SYS-5-CONFIG_I: Configured from console by console
Buttercup#show isdn status
Global ISDN Switchtype = basic-5ess
ISDN BRI0 interface
dsl 0, interface ISDN Switchtype = basic-5ess
Layer 1 Status:
ACTIVE
Layer 2 Status:
TEI = 66, Ces = 1, SAPI = 0, State = MULTIPLE_FRAME_ESTABLISHED
Layer 3 Status:
0 Active Layer 3 Call(s)

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 577

577

Configuring PRI Interfaces
Activated dsl 0 CCBs = 0
The Free Channel Mask: 0x80000003
Total Allocated ISDN CCBs = 0

Take a look at the bolded portions. As soon as the configuration was entered and no shudown
command was used to bring up the interface, both BRI0:1 and BRI0:2 went down. The Bchannels are not necessary until you need to transfer data to the other end of the connection.
On the other hand, BRI0, which represents the D-channel, powered up. The key message that
you can see is the %ISDN-6-LAYER2UP: Layer 2 for Interface BR0, TEI 66 changed to
up. This indicates that you have begun communicating with the service provider. The TEI
stands for Terminal Endpoint Identifier. It’s the Layer 2 addressing that the ISDN connections
use (very similar to the MAC address of ethernet and the DLCI number of Frame Relay). Your
TEI address is dynamically assigned to you when you connect to the service provider.
One of the most useful verification commands is show isdn status. This key command
enables you to see all three layers of the ISDN connection. Layer 1 (Physical) is shown as
active. Layer 2 (Data Link) shows the TEI address and the fact that you’ve sent/received multiple frames from the service provider. Layer 3 (Network) will not go active until you complete
an end-to-end call with another ISDN router.

Configuring PRI Interfaces
Although the number of BRI connections is quickly diminishing in the United States, PRI
connections are still quite popular. This is the ISDN equivalent of a T1 line. The configuration of PRI is very similar, but has a slight twist. Cisco decided to release a “combo T1 interface,” that is, an interface that is capable of handling a T1 CAS connection (non-ISDN) or a
T1 CCS connection (ISDN). This is pretty stellar for you because you get one interface that
can handle two totally different connection types. However, when you install the interface, it
needs to be configured for one or the other (CAS or CCS). Let me get into the configuration
and I’ll explain as I go:
Snuggles#show ip interface brief
Interface
IP-Address
FastEthernet0/0
192.168.100.10
FastEthernet0/1
unassigned

OK? Method Status
Protocol
YES NVRAM up
up
YES NVRAM administratively down down

At an initial glance, it seems the router does not have an ISDN interface, or at least not one
that shows up in the interface list. This is because Cisco calls T1 interfaces “controllers.” Take
a look:
Snuggles#show controllers t1
T1 0/1/0 is down.
Applique type is Channelized T1
Cablelength is long gain36 0db

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 578

578

Chapter 16: ISDN
Transmitter is sending remote alarm.
Receiver has loss of signal.
alarm-trigger is not set
Version info Firmware: 20041023, FPGA: 16, spm_count = 0
Framing is ESF, Line Code is B8ZS, Clock Source is Line.
CRC Threshold is 320. Reported from firmware is 320.
Data in current interval (548 seconds elapsed):
0 Line Code Violations, 0 Path Code Violations
0 Slip Secs, 0 Fr Loss Secs, 0 Line Err Secs, 0 Degraded Mins
0 Errored Secs, 0 Bursty Err Secs, 0 Severely Err Secs, 548 Unavail
Total Data (last 24 hours)
0 Line Code Violations, 0 Path Code Violations,
0 Slip Secs, 0 Fr Loss Secs, 0 Line Err Secs, 0 Degraded Mins,
0 Errored Secs, 0 Bursty Err Secs, 0 Severely Err Secs, 86400 Unavail

You can see that this router is equipped with a T1 controller in slot 0/1/0 that is currently
down. Now it’s time to get started with the PRI configuration.

ISDN Switch Type
The first move is the same as it was before. You need to configure the ISDN switch type on
the router to indicate what type of ISDN switch the service provider is using.
Snuggles#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
Snuggles(config)#isdn switch-type ?
primary-4ess
Lucent 4ESS switch type for the U.S.
primary-5ess
Lucent 5ESS switch type for the U.S.
primary-dms100 Northern Telecom DMS-100 switch type for the U.S.
primary-dpnss
DPNSS switch type for Europe
primary-net5
NET5 switch type for UK, Europe, Asia and Australia
primary-ni
National ISDN Switch type for the U.S.
primary-ntt
NTT switch type for Japan
primary-qsig
QSIG switch type
primary-ts014
TS014 switch type for Australia (obsolete)
Snuggles(config)#isdn switch-type primary-5ess

Notice that all the switch types begin with primary instead of the basic BRI switch types. In
this case, the service provider is using the primary-5ess switch type.

PRI Groups
Now that you’ve told the router the service provider switch type, you need to allocate your
ISDN channels. This is a pretty interesting process that requires you to understand a little
background.

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 579

579

Configuring PRI Interfaces

When you purchase a PRI line from the service provider, it can be used for data transmissions
from site to site or for your PBX system. The PBX system provides telephone service to your
entire internal phone network and requires outside lines to the PSTN. This was the beauty of
ISDN: The same connection got you data service for your network and Public Switched
Telephone Network (PSTN) service for your Private Branch Exchange (PBX). All that you
needed was a multiplexer (a device used to combine or split multiple channels into single or
multiple streams) to take the incoming B-channels and splice them up in the two directions.
Figure 16.2 gives a visual representation of this concept.

13 B-channels
PRI Line
23 B-channels
1 D-channel

Data Router

Multiplexer

10 B-channels

FIGURE 16.2
PBX

Using a multiplexer to manage
incoming PRI
lines.

As you can see, the PRI line comes in from the service provider. The multiplexer (you could
also call this a de-multiplexer because it splits the channels up) takes these channels and
divides them. 13 of the B-channels go to the data side, giving it 832Kbps (64Kbps per Bchannel×13) and 10 of the B-channels go to the PBX system, allowing 10 concurrent PSTN
calls (each PSTN call consumes a single B-channel). You can divide these B-channels up however you’d like, but you need to tell the router which B-channels it is able to use. Because of
the flexibility of splicing up B-channels, service providers are able to sell fractional T1 lines
at lower rates that have fewer B-channels than a full PRI line.
With this in mind, here’s how you configure the router so it knows what B-channels it can
use. For this example, the router consumes the full PRI line (all 23 B-channels and the
D-channel).
Snuggles#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
Snuggles(config)#controller t1 0/1/0
Snuggles(config-controller)#pri-group timeslots 1-24
Snuggles(config-controller)#^Z

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 580

580

Chapter 16: ISDN
Snuggles#show ip interface brief
Interface
IP-Address
FastEthernet0/0
192.168.100.10
FastEthernet0/1
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:0
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:1
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:2
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:3
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:4
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:5
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:6
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:7
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:8
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:9
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:10
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:11
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:12
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:13
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:14
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:15
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:16
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:17
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:18
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:19
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:20
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:21
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:22
unassigned
Serial0/1/0:23
unassigned

OK? Method Status
YES NVRAM up
YES NVRAM down
YES unset down
YES unset down
YES unset down
YES unset down
YES unset down
YES unset down
YES unset down
YES unset down
YES unset down
YES unset down
YES unset down
YES unset down
YES unset down
YES unset down
YES unset down
YES unset down
YES unset down
YES unset down
YES unset down
YES unset down
YES unset down
YES unset down
YES unset down
YES unset down

Protocol
up
down
down
down
down
down
down
down
down
down
down
down
down
down
down
down
down
down
down
down
down
down
down
down
down
down

Wow! Take a look at that! Interfaces appearing like magic. The router has taken the T1
line and spliced it up into 24 (numbered 0–23) individual channels. These represent the 23
B-channels of the connection and the D-channel (which is inconspicuously labeled
Serial0/1/0:23).
Just like BRI, all logical configuration is applied to the D-channel, which controls all the
B-channels. From here on out, the rest of the configuration for PRI is identical to BRI; you
just have more B-channels to work with.

EXAM ALERT
Although both the BRI and PRI flavors of ISDN could potentially be on the CCNA exam, it would be a
safe bet to say that most of the questions will focus on the BRI concepts and configuration. PRI is usually reserved for the BCRAN CCNP exam.

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 581

581

Dial-on-Demand Routing

Dial-on-Demand Routing
Because ISDN must dial to make a connection to another location, it is nearly impossible to
talk about ISDN configuration without also discussing the partner technology, dial-ondemand routing (DDR). DDR configurations enable you to make a connection as resources
are required and then disconnect when those resources are no longer needed. DDR is considered a separate technology from ISDN because it can also be used for other PSTN connections. For example, you might have a primary Frame Relay connection between your sites. If
that fails, your ISDN link dials up as a backup connection. If that fails, a standard 56Kbps
modem dials up as a final backup.
DDR connections are handy when you have small amounts of data to send periodically.
Because ISDN is charged on a per-minute basis, the less you use the connection, the more it
benefits your company’s pocket book. If you are sending large amounts of data throughout the
day, the cost of your low-speed ISDN connection may exceed the cost of purchasing a higherspeed, always-connected WAN link.

DDR Operation
Before you jump straight into the configuration, you need to learn at least the high points of
how DDR works. ISDN configuration is a step-by-step process, so look at Figure 16.3 to see
a visual of a network situation. The following list describes the process of a DDR connection
on a Cisco router.
172.16.90.0/24

172.16.110.0/24

Troy

PSTN
Helen

FIGURE 16.3

ISDN scenario.

1. The client on the 172.16.90.0 network decides to send some traffic to the server on

the 172.16.110.0 network. The Troy router looks up the route in its routing table and
determines that the next hop address is across the ISDN connection.
2. Troy checks to see whether the traffic being sent to the server classifies as “interesting

traffic,” as not all traffic is considered worthy enough to bring up the ISDN connection.

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 582

582

Chapter 16: ISDN
3. Troy looks up the phone number it needs to dial to reach the next hop address to the

172.16.110.0 network. This is the Helen router.
4. A phone call is placed and a connection made, and data is transmitted.
5. After a certain pre-configured time with no interesting traffic being sent, the Troy

router hangs up the connection.

Traditional DDR Configuration
DDR configuration is not so much difficult as it is tedious. There are so many pieces of the
configuration to remember that even the most seasoned Cisco technician can begin to forget
pieces of DDR setup. Before you get into this configuration, you may be wondering, “Why is
this section called ‘traditional’ DDR configuration?” It’s called this because this is the simplest
and oldest method to configure DDR. This method does lack some flexibility, however, so if
you have just a single destination you are attempting to dial, traditional DDR is the way to go.
The newer method, called Dialer Profiles, is discussed a little later in the chapter.
Even though there are many configuration pieces, setting up traditional DDR boils down to
three major steps:
1. Configure static routes describing the remote network(s) accessible over the DDR con-

nection.
2. Define the traffic type(s) that are “interesting” enough to bring up the DDR connec-

tion.
3. Map the remote IP address of the destination you are trying to reach to the phone

number you need to dial to get there.
Now that you know the steps, it’s time to talk about how to set up each one of them.

Configuring Static Routes
Throughout this book, we’ve talked about many different methods of populating a routing
table—RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, and the list goes on. With all these different options, it might seem
strange that you need to use the most primitive of all the routing methods, static routing, for
your DDR connections. The reason behind this is that all the routing protocols generate some
type of network traffic. With RIP it’s broadcast traffic. With EIGRP and OSPF it’s Hello messages. Any type of network traffic like this keeps the ISDN DDR connection active at all times,
which can shoot the cost of your connection way up. Instead, defining a static route informs
your router of the network(s) that are available remotely without generating any traffic on any
of the router interfaces. Before you get into the syntax of this, take a look at the network diagram in Figure 16.4.

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 583

583

Traditional DDR Configuration
172.16.90.0/24

172.16.110.0/24

BRI0
10.1.1.1
Sam

PSTN

BRI0
10.1.1.2

FIGURE 16.4

ISDN configuration
scenario.

Frodo
480-111-1111

480-222-2222

So you are able to get the big picture, look at the configuration of both routers. All you need
to do initially is create a static route to tell the Sam and Frodo routers of the networks they
can reach with the ISDN connection:
Sam#show ip interface brief
Interface
IP-Address
OK? Method Status
BRI0
10.1.1.1
YES manual up
BRI0:1
unassigned
YES unset down
BRI0:2
unassigned
YES unset down
Ethernet0
172.16.90.1
YES manual up
Sam#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
Sam(config)#ip route 172.16.110.0 255.255.255.0 10.1.1.2
Frodo#show ip interface brief
Interface
IP-Address
OK? Method Status
BRI0
10.1.1.2
YES manual up
BRI0:1
unassigned
YES unset down
BRI0:2
unassigned
YES unset down
Ethernet0
172.16.110.1
YES manual up
\
Frodo#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
Frodo(config)#ip route 172.16.90.0 255.255.255.0 10.1.1.1

Protocol
up
down
down
up

Protocol
up
down
down
up

At this point, the Sam and Frodo routers now know that they are able to reach each other’s
LAN network by using the ISDN connection. Looking at the interface status from show ip
interface brief, it may be tempting to stop there; the BRI0 interface is showing a status of
up, but this only means that the connection to the local service provider is working. You still
do not have end-to-end connectivity. On to Step 2.

EXAM ALERT
Know that the reason why you do not use dynamic routing protocols over the ISDN connection is to
ensure the line does not remain connected unnecessarily.

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 584

584

Chapter 16: ISDN

Defining Interesting Traffic
Cisco calls it “interesting traffic”; however, I prefer to call it “worthy traffic,” as in, “This traffic is worthy enough to bring up my ISDN connection that charges me on a per-minute basis.”
Regardless of what you call it, you need to define the traffic types that will initiate the ISDN
connection. You could be as broad as saying, “Any TCP/IP-based communication can bring
up the ISDN link.” Or you could say, “Only HTTP and FTP traffic can bring up the ISDN
link.”
You configure interesting traffic by using something known as a dialer list. Let me walk you
through the general syntax, and then we’ll get fancy.
Frodo(config)#dialer-list ?
<1-10> Dialer group number

The first thing you’ll notice is that the dialer-list command is set up in Global
Configuration mode. As a matter of fact, the general feel of a dialer list is similar to an access
list. You create your dialer list entries in Global Configuration mode and then apply them
under Interface Configuration mode, using a dialer-group command (just like the access
list/access group relationship). At this point, you are prompted for a dialer list number. The
version of IOS this router uses enables you to create up to 10 different dialer lists. The number you choose is not really significant, as long as it is a unique dialer list number on the router;
again, this is just like the access list numbers.
Frodo(config)#dialer-list 1 ?
protocol Permit or Deny based on protocols

I decided to use dialer list number 1. Now the router requires that you type in the protocol
keyword to choose what protocol you would like to permit or deny.
Frodo(config)#dialer-list 1 protocol ?
appletalk
AppleTalk
bridge
Bridging
clns
OSI Connectionless Network Service
clns_es
CLNS End System
clns_is
CLNS Intermediate System
decnet
DECnet
decnet_node
DECnet node
decnet_router-L1 DECnet router L1
decnet_router-L2 DECnet router L2
hpr
HPR
ip
IP
ipx
Novell IPX
llc2
LLC2
netbios
NETBIOS
vines
Banyan Vines
xns
XNS

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 585

585

Traditional DDR Configuration

The number of protocols you’ll see in this list depends on the IOS version and feature set you
are running. For almost everything we do in networks nowadays, you will be choosing the IP
protocol.
Frodo(config)#dialer-list 1 protocol ip ?
deny
Deny specified protocol
list
Add access list to dialer list
permit Permit specified protocol

Now it’s time to choose what you would like to permit and deny. Now, this is a major HUGE
point: Creating a dialer list only defines the traffic that is permitted to initiate the ISDN connection, that is, that interesting (or “worthy”) traffic. A dialer list does not dictate what traffic is
allowed or not allowed over the connection. I realize this may sound like a contradictory statement, so let me explain a little further.
For this initial configuration, I am going to say that all IP traffic is permitted to initiate the
ISDN connection. So, if the ISDN line is not connected and IPX or Appletalk traffic comes
along, the line does not become active. The IPX and Appletalk traffic will be dropped.
However, imagine that a packet of IP traffic comes along. Immediately, the ISDN line connects because IP traffic is considered interesting. Now, after the line is connected, the same
IPX or Appletalk traffic comes to try to reach the other side. Now the traffic will be sent because
the ISDN line is already connected. Just to highlight one more time, the dialer list does not
say what traffic is allowed or denied across the ISDN link, just what traffic is allowed or not
allowed to initiate (or dial) the ISDN link. With that understanding in place, it’s time to finish the command:
Frodo(config)#dialer-list 1 protocol ip permit ?
<cr>

At this point, there is a single dialer list that dictates all IP traffic as being considered worthy
to bring up the line. However, the router now needs to know what line is to be brought up.
Dialer lists do not have any effect on anything until they are applied.
Frodo(config)#interface bri 0
Frodo(config-if)#dialer-group 1

That’s it! Now, if any IP traffic hits the Frodo router that attempts to reach any destination on
the Sam router, the Frodo router knows to initiate the BRI 0 interface (which is the ISDN connection). Now add the same configuration to the Sam router to ensure it can initiate a connection to Frodo.
Sam(config)#dialer-list 1 protocol ip permit
Sam(config)#interface bri 0
Sam(config-if)#dialer-group 1

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 586

586

Chapter 16: ISDN

One quick note before we move on. I mentioned earlier that dialer lists have the capability to
be restrictive enough to allow only certain traffic types (such as HTTP or FTP) to initiate
DDR connections. They do so by combining access lists with dialer lists. Let me show you an
example that allows only HTTP or FTP traffic to initiate an ISDN connection:
Sam(config)#access-list 100 permit tcp any any eq 80
Sam(config)#access-list 100 permit tcp any any eq 21
Sam(config)#dialer-list 2 protocol ip list 100
Sam(config)#interface bri 1
Sam(config-if)#dialer-group 2

Only TCP traffic that uses port 80 or port 21 (HTTP and FTP) from any source to any destination will be considered “interesting” to dialer list 2. The dialer list 2 was then applied to
the BRI 1 interface. As you can see, by combining access lists with dialer lists, you can be as
detailed as you want with what types of traffic you consider interesting enough to initiate your
connection.

EXAM ALERT
Be sure to remember that a dialer list does not dictate what traffic is allowed or denied to cross the
ISDN connection. That’s the job of an access list. A dialer list simply dictates what traffic is considered
interesting enough to activate the ISDN connection.

Map Remote Addresses
Now it’s time to take the third and final step of setting up a traditional ISDN DDR connection. You need to map a Layer 2 ISDN address to the Layer 3 IP address it can reach. Simply
put, you need to tell the ISDN interface what phone number to dial to reach the other side
of the connection. You do this from interface configuration mode, using the dialer map command. Look at the following to walk through it step by step for Sam and Frodo:
Sam(config)#interface bri 0
Sam(config-if)#dialer map ?
appletalk AppleTalk
bridge
Bridging
clns
ISO CLNS
decnet
DECnet
hpr
HPR
ip
IP
ipx
Novell IPX
llc2
LLC2
netbios
NETBIOS
pppoe
PPP over Ethernet
snapshot
Snapshot routing support

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 587

587

Traditional DDR Configuration
vines
xns

Banyan VINES
Xerox Network Services

Sam(config-if)#dialer map ip ?
A.B.C.D Protocol specific address

Remember that the goal in this: You need to tell the Sam router what phone number it should
dial to reach Frodo’s IP address. So, in this case, you are going to map Frodo’s BRI 0 interface
address to the phone number you dial to get there. Looking back at Figure 16.4, you can see
that Frodo’s IP address is 480-222-2222 (I am using an ISDN simulator, which is why the
phone number looks a little cheesy).
Sam(config-if)#dialer map ip 10.1.1.2 ?
WORD
Dialer string (quote strings containing #)
broadcast
Broadcasts should be forwarded to this address
class
dialer map class
modem-script
Specify regular expression to select modem dialing script
name
Map to a host
spc
Semi Permanent Connections
speed
Set dialer speed
system-script Specify regular expression to select system dialing script

Wow! Lots of options you can set up. Before I explain the highlighted commands, let me first
say that the only thing you need to do to get the ISDN connection working is to type in the
phone number (shown here in context-sensitive help as WORD). I’ve highlighted the most common options that administrators add to the dialer map. Just as in the world of Frame Relay, the
broadcast keyword allows broadcast and multicast packets to cross the ISDN connection.
This is critical if you would like your routing protocols to work over the ISDN line. The name
keyword enables you to type in the name of the remote router. This is necessary if you are
using CHAP or PAP PPP-based authentication on your ISDN connection (discussed fully in
the WAN protocols chapter of this book). In this configuration, you can add the broadcast
keyword to allow routing protocols to function.
Sam(config-if)#dialer map ip 10.1.1.2 broadcast 4802222222

There you go. Now, add the necessary command to the Frodo router:
Frodo(config-if)#dialer map ip 10.1.1.1 broadcast 4801111111

And that’s all there is to it! Now, I know the commands have become a little chopped up with
all the commentary in between. So now take a look at the complete configuration for both
sides of the connection one last time before we test everything out.

EXAM ALERT
Be sure to remember what the broadcast keyword does, for both ISDN and Frame Relay connections.

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 588

588

Chapter 16: ISDN

Complete DDR Configuration
Listed here are the complete configurations of the Sam and Frodo routers:
Sam#show run
!
!--<unneccesary output omitted>--!
!
interface Ethernet0
ip address 172.16.90.1 255.255.255.0
!
interface BRI0
ip address 10.1.1.1 255.255.255.0
encapsulation ppp
dialer map ip 10.1.1.2 broadcast 48022222222
dialer-group 1
isdn spid1 111
isdn switch-type basic-5ess
!
ip route 172.16.110.0 255.255.255.0 10.1.1.2
dialer-list 1 protocol ip permit
Frodo#show run
!
!--<unneccesary output omitted>--!
!
interface Ethernet0
ip address 172.16.110.1 255.255.255.0
!
interface BRI0
ip address 10.1.1.2 255.255.255.0
encapsulation ppp
dialer map ip 10.1.1.1 broadcast 4801111111
dialer-group 1
isdn spid1 222
isdn switch-type basic-5ess
!
ip route 172.16.90.0 255.255.255.0 10.1.1.1
dialer-list 1 protocol ip permit

Verification
With held breath, you can now move into testing the ISDN configuration. It is not too difficult to make sure everything is working; all you should need to do is attempt to ping from one
side of the connection to the other. For example, you could get on the Sam router and ping
the LAN interface of the Frodo router. Here’s the flow of what will happen (understanding this
is key to understanding why the DDR connection initiates):

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 589

589

Traditional DDR Configuration
1. On the Sam router, ping 172.16.110.1, which is the LAN interface of the Frodo router.
2. Sam looks at its routing table and finds out that it has a static route to the

172.16.110.0/24 network with 10.1.1.2 listed as the next-hop-address. The best route
to reach that address is its BRI0 interface, which is directly connected to the
10.1.1.0/24 network.
3. The BRI0 is recognized as a DDR interface. The Sam router checks to see whether the

ping message is considered “interesting traffic” by looking at the dialer-list/dialergroup commands.
4. After the traffic is identified as interesting, the dialer-map is checked to see what phone

number is necessary to reach the 10.1.1.2 address. The phone number is dialed.
5. The Frodo router answers the incoming call, negotiates PPP options, and the link is

connected. The ping message goes through.
This entire process happens in 1–2 seconds. To verify the process, you can use a couple of the
troubleshooting commands, debug dialer and debug isdn events, to watch the progress.
Sam#debug dialer
Dial on demand events debugging is on
Sam#debug isdn events
ISDN events debugging is on
Sam#ping 172.16.110.1
Type escape sequence to abort.
Sending 5, 100-byte ICMP Echos to 172.16.110.1, timeout is 2 seconds:
1d05h: BR0 DDR: Dialing cause ip (s=10.1.1.1, d=172.16.110.1)
1d05h: BR0 DDR: Attempting to dial 4802222222
1d05h: ISDN BR0: Outgoing call id = 0x8009, dsl 0
1d05h: ISDN BR0: Event: Call to 4802222222 at 64 Kb/s
1d05h: ISDN BR0: process_bri_call(): call id 0x8009, called_number
4802222222, speed 64, call type DATA
1d05h: CCBRI_Go Fr Host InPkgInfo (Len=25) :
1d05h: 1 0 1 80 9 0 4 2 88 90 18 1 83 2C A 34 38 30 32 32 32 32 32 32 32
1d05h:
1d05h: CC_CHAN_GetIdleChanbri: dsl 0
1d05h:
Found idle channel B1
1d05h: CCBRI_Go Fr L3 pkt (Len=7) :
1d05h: 2 1 9 98 18 1 89
1d05h:
1d05h: ISDN BR0: LIF_EVENT: ces/callid 1/0x8009 HOST_PROCEEDING
1d05h: ISDN BR0: HOST_PROCEEDING
1d05h: ISDN BR0: HOST_MORE_INFO
1d05h: CCBRI_Go Fr L3 pkt (Len=4) :
1d05h: 7 1 9 91

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 590

590

Chapter 16: ISDN
1d05h:
1d05h: ISDN BR0: LIF_EVENT: ces/callid 1/0x8009 HOST_CONNECT
1d05h: %LINK-3-UPDOWN: Interface BRI0:1, changed state to up.!!!!
Success rate is 80 percent (4/5), round-trip min/avg/max = 32/35/36 ms
Sam#
1d05h: ISDN: get_isdn_service_state(): idb 0x23D644 bchan 2 is_isdn 1
1d05h: ISDN BR0: Event: Connected to 4802222222 on B1 at 64 Kb/s
1d05h: BR0:1 DDR: dialer protocol up
Sam#
1d05h: %LINEPROTO-5-UPDOWN: Line protocol on Interface BRI0:1, changed
state to up
Sam#
1d05h: %ISDN-6-CONNECT: Interface BRI0:1 is now connected to 4802222222

Watching all that happen is like watching a good fireworks show. Now, there’s plenty of information to weed through, but take a look at the action. As soon as the ping 172.16.110.1
command is entered, the router goes into gear. It first shows the cause of the dialing event:
“The source IP 10.1.1.1 is trying to access the destination 172.16.110.1.” Right after that, it
quickly says, “I’m trying to dial 4802222222.” A flurry of messages follows, up to the HOST
CONNECT. Do you notice the .!!!! right after the BRI0:1 goes up? That’s the result of the ping
attempts. It looks like the first . is the period at the end of the sentence, but actually, it’s a
dropped ping. In the time it took the router to bring up the ISDN connection, a single ping
message was dropped. The other four exclamation points indicate success for all the following
ping messages.
Let me show you two verification commands before we move on. They are the show dialer
and show isdn status commands:
Sam#show dialer
BRI0 - dialer type = ISDN
Dial String
Successes
Failures
Last DNIS
4802222222
5
0
00:00:57
0 incoming call(s) have been screened.
0 incoming call(s) rejected for callback.
BRI0:1 - dialer type = ISDN
Idle timer (120 secs), Fast idle timer (20 secs)
Wait for carrier (30 secs), Re-enable (15 secs)
Dialer state is data link layer up
Dial reason: ip (s=10.1.1.1, d=172.16.110.1)
Time until disconnect 64 secs
Connected to 4802222222
BRI0:2 - dialer type = ISDN
Idle timer (120 secs), Fast idle timer (20 secs)
Wait for carrier (30 secs), Re-enable (15 secs)
Dialer state is idle

Last status
successful

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 591

591

Dialer Profile Configuration

The show dialer command gives you some key information describing DDR operations. You
can see that I’ve been having a little fun in the background because it shows five successful dials
of 480-222-2222. I have dialed on five different occasions because the default idle-timer for
DDR connections is 120 seconds. If the ISDN connection does not see any interesting traffic
for 2 minutes, the line is disconnected. Unfortunately, it has taken me 10 minutes to type all
the information you’ve read from the beginning of the ISDN test until now, causing the ISDN
connection to drop on five occasions. This default timer is usually a good thing because ISDN
connections can be costly if you keep them connected too long. However, if you ever want to
change it (or turn off the idle disconnect completely), just use the dialer idle-timeout command under the interface configuration mode.
Sam#show isdn status
Global ISDN Switchtype = basic-5ess
ISDN BRI0 interface
dsl 0, interface ISDN Switchtype = basic-5ess
Layer 1 Status:
ACTIVE
Layer 2 Status:
TEI = 66, Ces = 1, SAPI = 0, State = MULTIPLE_FRAME_ESTABLISHED
I_Queue_Len 0, UI_Queue_Len 0
TEI 66, ces = 1, state = 8(established)
spid1 configured, spid1 sent, spid1 valid
Endpoint ID Info: epsf = 1, usid = 1, tid = 2
Layer 3 Status:
1 Active Layer 3 Call(s)
CCB:callid=800A, sapi=0, ces=1, B-chan=1, calltype=DATA
Active dsl 0 CCBs = 1
The Free Channel Mask: 0x80000002
Number of L2 Discards = 0, L2 Session ID = 5

The show isdn status command is always handy to use because it will give you each layer
of your ISDN connectivity and show any problems that occur at each. For example, when I
was setting everything up that you see here, I mistyped the SPID for the connection. When I
issued the show isdn status command, it flagged me right under the Layer 2 Status section
that SPID1 was invalid.

Dialer Profile Configuration
You now know enough that you can move from the world of traditional DDR configurations
into the more flexible, but slightly more complex idea of DDR that uses dialer profiles.

What’s Wrong with Traditional DDR?
To answer the question directly, there’s nothing wrong with traditional DDR. It works just fine
for fairly simple configurations; however, it doesn’t give you the flexibility you need to change

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 592

592

Chapter 16: ISDN

interface configurations based on the location you are dialing. For example, take a look at
Figure 16.5.
172.16.110.0/24

172.16.90.0/24
Frodo
480-222-2222
BRI0
10.1.1.2
BRI0
10.1.1.1
Sam

PSTN
172.16.100.0/24

480-111-1111

480-333-3333
BRI0
172.16.1.1

FIGURE 16.5
Bilbo

ISDN connections with
multiple destinations.

It’s the same story as before: The Sam and Frodo routers are connected to each other via
ISDN. But now a new character has joined the tale: Bilbo. Do you see any problem with connecting to the Bilbo router? Check out the IP address assigned to the BRI0 interface. It’s on
a different network than the Sam and Frodo routers. Sam (or Frodo) could dial up the Bilbo
router, but after they connected, the interfaces would not be able to communicate. Now you
might be thinking, “Why don’t you just change the Bilbo IP address to something on the
10.1.1.0/24 network?” Well, it just so happens that the Bilbo router receives calls from the
Gandalf router (not pictured) that is under government regulations to be assigned the IP
address 172.16.1.2. Therefore, Bilbo’s address cannot be changed…now what? Traditional
DDR comes up short because everything is manually assigned to the interface. Welcome to
dialer profiles.

Dialer Profile Concepts
You may be familiar with Windows user profiles if you’ve had any experience in the Microsoft
side of the game. If not, let me give you an overview. In a network, every user is different.

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 593

593

Dialer Profile Configuration

They all like different screensavers, different backgrounds, different icons on the desktop. To
keep it all straight, Microsoft Windows creates a profile for each user, which remembers the
exact settings used with each login to the computers.
Dialer profiles are a very similar concept. You create profiles for each unique interface configuration you require for your network environment. These profiles contain all your logical settings that you would usually assign to the BRI interface, such as IP addressing, authentication,
dialed numbers, and so on. You then tell those profiles which physical interface(s) they can use
if called upon, and you’re good to go. The toughest thing to learn about this configuration is
the terms. Figure 16.6 gives a visual representation of the components of dialer profiles.

Dialer Profile 1
(aka Dialer Interface 1)

Dialer Profile 2
(aka Dialer Interface 2)

Dialer Pool 50

BRI 0
Interface

BRI 1
Interface

FIGURE 16.6

Cisco dialer

profiles.

When configuring dialer profiles, the first step is not typically setting up the profile itself.
You’ll first configure your dialer pools. Dialer pools are just a logical group of physical interfaces that these profiles will be able use if needed. Think back to playing team sports in grade
school. You usually had a couple team captains who would pick the players they would like on
their team. The kids “not yet picked” would stand in a big blob in hopeful expectation of
being picked next. That’s all a dialer pool is: a big blob of one or more ordered, physical interfaces. For example, I could create a dialer pool that looked something like this:
Dialer Pool 50
. First Pick: BRI0 interface
. Second Pick: BRI1 interface
. Third Pick: AUX Modem

I’d then associate that dialer pool with a dialer profile, which contains the entire logical configuration for the connection. The call flow would then look something like this:
Router# ping 172.16.100.1
(begin router’s inner monologue)
Router Processor: “Hey! We just got an outgoing call for the Gandalf router—use the configuration in Dialer Profile #2!”

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 594

594

Chapter 16: ISDN

Dialer Profile #2: “I’m ready to go. Let me just grab an interface from Dialer Pool 50. Who’s
listed first?”
BRI0 Interface: “I’m listed first, but unfortunately, I’m currently in use.”
Dialer Profile #2: “All right then, who’s listed second?”
BRI1 Interface: “I’m second, and I’m ready for action.”
Dialer Profile #2: “Alright BRI1, here’s the IP address, encapsulation, and phone number I want
you to use.”
(end router’s inner monologue)
From there, all the logical configuration you’ve configured in Dialer Profile #2 is applied to
the BRI1 interface and the call goes through. After the router completes the call, all the logical configuration is removed from the BRI1 interface and it returns as a “generic interface” to
the Dialer Pool 50.
Now that you’ve seen the flow of a typical dialer profile-based call, here’s how you will usually set up the configuration:
1. Add physical interfaces to the dialer pool.
2. Configure dialer profiles (aka dialer interfaces) for each configuration you need applied

to the ISDN interface.
3. Associate dialer interfaces with a dialer pool.

The following sections walk through these actions one at a time.

Configuring Dialer Pools
Dialer pools are a little more theoretical than most Cisco configurations. They are more of an
“implied” configuration than an actual line item. You will never create a dialer pool explicitly;
rather, you’ll just begin adding physical interfaces to a pool, causing it to be implicitly created.
Take a look:
Sam#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line.
Sam(config)#interface bri 0
Sam(config-if)#dialer pool-member ?
<1-255> Dialer pool number
Sam(config-if)#dialer pool-member 50
Sam(config-if)#exit
Sam(config)#interface bri 1
Sam(config-if)#dialer pool-member 50

End with CNTL/Z.

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 595

595

Dialer Profile Configuration

I never went and defined Dialer Pool 50 on the Sam router; instead, it was implicitly created
when the BRI0 and BRI1 interfaces were added to it. That’s all there is to this step, but before
you move on, let me mention a few dialer pool rules:
. An interface can be a member of multiple dialer pools.
. A dialer profile can use only a single dialer pool.
. Multiple dialer profiles can use the same dialer pool.

Configuring Dialer Interfaces and Associating Dialer
Pools
After you have associated the physical interfaces with the dialer pools, you can create your
dialer interfaces. A dialer interface is the same thing as a dialer profile; it’s just the practical
application of the theory (that is, a dialer interface is the configuration; a dialer profile is the
theory). The concepts are the same as those involved in configuring traditional DDR, however, some of the syntax is different. I’ll set up the Sam router to operate in the scenario given
previously in Figure 16.5.
Sam(config)#interface dialer 1
Sam(config-if)#description CONNECTION TO FRODO
Sam(config-if)#ip address 10.1.1.1 255.255.255.0
Sam(config-if)#encapsulation ppp
Sam(config-if)#dialer pool 50
Sam(config-if)#dialer string 4802222222
Sam(config-if)#dialer-group 1
Sam(config-if)#exit
Sam(config)#interface dialer 2
Sam(config-if)#description CONNECTION TO GANDALF
Sam(config-if)#ip address 172.16.1.2 255.255.255.0
Sam(config-if)#encapsulation ppp
Sam(config-if)#dialer pool 50
Sam(config-if)#dialer string 4803333333
Sam(config-if)#dialer-group 1
Sam(config-if)#exit
Sam(config)#^Z
Sam#show ip interface brief
Interface
IP-Address
OK? Method Status
BRI0
unassigned
YES manual up
BRI0:1
unassigned
YES unset down
BRI0:2
unassigned
YES unset down
BRI1
unassigned
YES manual up
BRI1:1
unassigned
YES unset down
BRI1:2
unassigned
YES unset down
Dialer1
10.1.1.1
YES manual up
Dialer2
172.16.1.2
YES manual up
Ethernet0
172.16.90.1
YES manual up

Protocol
up
down
down
up
down
down
up
up
up

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 596

596

Chapter 16: ISDN

You can see that you now have two different dialer interfaces that have magically appeared on
the router. These are the dialer profiles. The configuration of the interface uses all the same
components as the traditional DDR configuration; however, the dialer map command has
been replaced by dialer string because each dialer profile can connect to only a single destination. Both these dialer interfaces are pulling from the same Dialer Pool 50, which includes
both the BRI0 and BRI1 interfaces. This configuration removes nearly the entire configuration from the physical BRI interfaces. However, just a few commands must be in place:
Sam(config)#interface bri 0
Sam(config-if)#encapsulation ppp
Sam(config-if)#ppp authentication chap
Sam(config-if)#dialer pool-member 50
Sam(config-if)#exit
Sam(config)#interface bri 1
Sam(config-if)#encapsulation ppp
Sam(config-if)#ppp authentication chap
Sam(config-if)#dialer pool-member 50

This base configuration enables the BRI0 and BRI1 interfaces to receive incoming calls. When
an incoming call arrives on the ISDN interface, it needs to perform a ground-level negotiation
with the other side to determine which dialer profile to use. If CHAP authentication is
enabled, it asks the incoming caller for a username. The other side supplies the username, and
the router can check for the dialer profile that uses this username. If CHAP authentication is
not used, Caller-ID information can be used to determine which dialer profile matches the
incoming caller.

Additional Dialer Configurations
As with anything in the Cisco world, there are many ways that you can modify and tune your
DDR operations to be the most efficient for your organization. This section talks about the
most common tuning methods. However, keep in mind that there is an entire CCNP course
and exam dedicated to fully discussing all the options at your disposal: BCRAN. What is discussed at the CCNA level is only an introduction.

Dialer Timers
As you’ve already discovered, DDR connections are not meant to be connected continually.
They connect when needed and then disconnect when their time is through. By default, the
dialer disconnects after 2 minutes of “idle time.” This does not mean that traffic is not using
the connection; it just means that two minutes have passed without the router seeing any interesting traffic. Two configuration commands can affect this timer:

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 597

597

Additional Dialer Configurations
Frodo(config-if)#dialer ?
callback-secure
Enable callback security
caller
Specify telephone number to be screened
enable-timeout
Set length of time an interface stays down
fast-idle
Set idle time before disconnecting line with an
unusually high level of contention
hold-queue
Configure output hold queue
idle-timeout
Specify idle timeout before disconnecting line
load-threshold
Specify threshold for placing additional calls
map
Define multiple dial-on-demand numbers
pool-member
Specify dialer pool membership
priority
Specify priority for use in dialer group
rotary-group
Add to a dialer rotary group
snapshot
Specify snapshot sequence number
string
Specify telephone number to be passed to DCE device
wait-for-carrier-time How long the router will wait for carrier
watch-disable
Time to wait before bringing down watched route link
watch-group
Assign interface to dialer-watch-list

These two commands are known as the idle-timeout and the fast-idle. I wanted to flash
up the context-sensitive help for the dialer command just to show you that there are many
other ways to tune the DDR connection. This should give you an idea of a few of those
methods.
The dialer idle-timeout command is used to specify, in seconds, how long the router
should wait without seeing interesting traffic before disconnecting the DDR connection.
Frodo(config-if)#dialer idle-timeout ?
<0-2147483> Idle timeout beforedisconnecting a call

As you can see, the router is quite flexible with the length of time you can select. By setting
the idle-timeout to zero, you effectively disable the idle timer. After the DDR connection is
dialed, it remains connected until you manually disconnect the interface.
The dialer fast-idle is a handy sidekick to the idle-timeout syntax. This is used to override the idle timer if there is another call waiting to be placed. For example, you might have
sent some traffic from the Sam router to the Frodo router. Meanwhile, another application is
attempting to send traffic to the Gandalf router. Without the fast idle timer, that traffic needs
to wait until the full idle timer is reached. However, if you configure the fast idle timer, the
router can lessen the wait time before dialing.
Sam(config-if)#dialer fast-idle ?
<1-2147483> Fast idle in seconds

As you can see, the router is just as flexible with the range for your fast idle timer. Keep in mind
that this value should be significantly less than your normal idle timer to be effective.

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 598

598

Chapter 16: ISDN

Bandwidth on Demand and PPP Multilink
I don’t know whether you noticed, but when the initial connection was established between the
Sam and Frodo routers (in the previous Traditional DDR section), only one of the ISDN Bchannels activated. In an ISDN BRI connection there are always two B-channels at your disposal. However, the router uses only one of them unless you specifically configure it to use
more. Even the PRI connection, which has 23 B-channels, uses the first B-channel unless you
activate more. The method of activation used is called PPP Multilink.
PPP Multilink is one of the LCP options discussed back in Chapter 15. It enables multiple
WAN connections to be bundled into a single pipe of bandwidth. Even though you have only
a single ISDN connection, you must employ the features of PPP Multilink to actively use and
load balance traffic across all the B-channels the ISDN line provides. Thankfully, PPP
Multilink is an industry standard feature. All routers supporting the PPP protocol must also
support PPP Multilink, which means that this feature can function between Cisco routers and
non-Cisco routers.
If you do decide to use Cisco routers to manage your ISDN connections, you gain an additional feature: Bandwidth on Demand (BOD). Here’s the concept: Each B-channel that you
connect in your ISDN bundle begins incurring cost. The service provider charges you on a
per-minute basis for each additional B-channel you add to your connection. If you activate
PPP Multilink, no matter what traffic is sent across the connection, all the B-channels become
active. Even if there is just a single, small ICMP ping message sent across the line, every single B-channel in the bundle quickly connects until the idle timer is reached. This is not cost
efficient. To address this issue, Cisco’s BOD enables the router to watch the ISDN connection.
As the load on the interface rises, more B-channels are activated. As the interface load lessens,
the B-channels are disconnected. Take a look at the configuration. The Sam and Frodo routers
in the base configuration depicted in Figure 16.4 are used for this example.
Sam#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
Sam(config)#interface bri 0
Sam(config-if)#ppp multilink
Sam(config-if)#dialer load-threshold ?
<1-255> Load threshold to place another call
Sam(config-if)#dialer load-threshold 127 ?
either
Threshold decision based on max of inbound and outbound traffic
inbound
Threshold decision based on inbound traffic only
outbound Threshold decision based on outbound traffic only
<cr>
Sam(config-if)#dialer load-threshold 127 either

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 599

599

Additional Dialer Configurations

Before you configure the Frodo router, take a look at this. The ppp multilink features were
activated first, which enables the router to bundle multiple B-channels into a single pipe of
bandwidth. Then the Cisco BOD feature was activated with the dialer load-threshold syntax. The interesting thing is that it provides a range of 1–255 to use for the load value. Cisco
uses this rather odd numbering scheme to represent a percentage. A load value of 1 represents
a value of nearly 0%. A load value of 255 represents a value of 100%. Setting the BOD load
value to 1 causes all your ISDN B-channels to activate as soon as traffic is sent. In this example, the BOD load value is set to 127, which represents roughly 50%. This means that if the
ISDN B-channels are at a load of 50% in either direction (because of the either command
typed at the end), the router activates more B-channels. Now it’s time to set up the Frodo side
of things:
Frodo#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
Frodo(config)#interface bri 0
Frodo(config-if)#ppp multilink
Frodo(config-if)#dialer load-threshold 127 either

Technically, because the Sam and Frodo routers are the only two routers in this picture, you
need to turn on BOD on only one side of the connection because you are using the either
keyword to watch both inbound and outbound traffic levels. Do note that the ppp multilink
command is needed on both sides of the connection for this to work properly. The last thing
you need to do is to test your configuration. To generate 50% traffic load, I’m going to use an
extended ping command and increase the size of packet that is sent over the ISDN line to a
reasonable amount.
Sam#ping
Protocol [ip]:
Target IP address: 10.1.1.2
Repeat count [5]: 1000
Datagram size [100]: 800
Timeout in seconds [2]:
Extended commands [n]:
Sweep range of sizes [n]:
Type escape sequence to abort.
Sending 1000, 800-byte ICMP Echos to 10.1.1.2, timeout is 2 seconds:
03:06:55: %LINK-3-UPDOWN: Interface BRI0:1, changed state to up..
03:06:57: %LINK-3-UPDOWN: Interface Virtual-Access1, changed state to up!!!!
03:06:58: %LINEPROTO-5-UPDOWN: Line protocol on Interface BRI0:1, changed
➥state to up
03:06:59: %LINEPROTO-5-UPDOWN: Line protocol on Interface Virtual-Access1,
➥changed state to up!!!!!!!!!!
03:07:01: %ISDN-6-CONNECT: Interface BRI0:1 is now connected to 4802222222
➥Frodo!!!!!!!!!!
03:07:22: %LINK-3-UPDOWN: Interface BRI0:2, changed state to up!!!!!!!!!
03:07:23: %LINEPROTO-5-UPDOWN: Line protocol on Interface BRI0:2, changed

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 600

600

Chapter 16: ISDN
➥state to up!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.
Success rate is 98 percent (156/159),
➥round-trip min/avg/max = 116/185/464 ms
Sam#
03:07:28: %ISDN-6-CONNECT: Interface BRI0:2 is now connected to
➥4802222222 Frodo

This output might look a little confusing at first. A ping is initiated from Sam to Frodo.
Initially, the BRI0:1 interface (the first B-channel) went active and was the only one that stayed
active for a significant amount of time. Finally, the BRI0:2 went active and joined the VirtualAccess1 interface. This Virtual-Access1 interface is created dynamically by PPP Multilink to
join the multiple B-channels into a single, logical connection.
The reason the BRI0:2 channel took so long to go active is because the Cisco router handles
all the interface load on a 5-minute average, by default. Take a look at the show interface
output for the first B-channel:
Sam#show interface bri 0:1
BRI0:1 is up, line protocol is up
Hardware is BRI
MTU 1500 bytes, BW 64 Kbit, DLY 20000 usec,
reliability 255/255, txload 59/255, rxload 59/255
Encapsulation PPP, loopback not set
!--<excessive output cut out>--!

The txload parameter is the amount of load the interface has in the outbound (send) direction. The rxload parameter is the amount of load the interface has in the inbound (receive)
direction. Using a 5-minute average causes these values to move up or down a little slower than
you might expect. This is good because you don’t want your B-channels constantly going up
and down as traffic load goes up and down many times every few seconds. Averaging out the
load lets you see the overall performance rather than a snapshot of instantaneous network performance.

EXAM ALERT
Be sure you remember that interface load and BOD configuration use a scale of 1–255, where 1 represents nearly 0% and 255 represents 100%.

Troubleshooting ISDN
Thankfully, ISDN connections are one of the easiest connections to troubleshoot because of
the numerous show and debug commands that enable you to focus on each portion of the
ISDN configuration. Most of these commands you have already seen in action over the course

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 601

601

Troubleshooting ISDN

of this chapter, so I present just a list describing each command, the area it monitors, and a
sample output.
. show dialer—This command enables you to view the overall status of your DDR

connections. It shows the number dialed, how many successes and failures the connection has had, and the majority of your idle timers.
Sam#show dialer
BRI0 - dialer type = ISDN
Dial String
Successes
Failures
Last DNIS
4802222222
6
1
00:11:35
0 incoming call(s) have been screened.
0 incoming call(s) rejected for callback.

Last status
successful

BRI0:1 - dialer type = ISDN
Idle timer (120 secs), Fast idle timer (20 secs)
Wait for carrier (30 secs), Re-enable (15 secs)
Dialer state is idle
BRI0:2 - dialer type = ISDN
Idle timer (120 secs), Fast idle timer (20 secs)
Wait for carrier (30 secs), Re-enable (15 secs)
Dialer state is idle

. show isdn active—This shows the current, active ISDN calls on your router.
Sam#show isdn active
----------------------------------------------------------------------ISDN ACTIVE CALLS
----------------------------------------------------------------------Call Calling Called Remote Seconds Seconds Seconds Charges
Type Number Number Name Used Left Idle Units/Currency
----------------------------------------------------------------------Out
---N/A--- 4802222222
Frodo
14 Unavail
0
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

. show isdn status—One of the handiest commands in my opinion. Shows all three

layers of ISDN connectivity (Physical through Network) and the status of each.
Sam#show isdn status
Global ISDN Switchtype = basic-5ess
ISDN BRI0 interface
dsl 0, interface ISDN Switchtype = basic-5ess
Layer 1 Status:
ACTIVE
Layer 2 Status:
TEI = 66, Ces = 1, SAPI = 0, State = MULTIPLE_FRAME_ESTABLISHED

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 602

602

Chapter 16: ISDN
Layer 3 Status:
1 Active Layer 3 Call(s)
CCB:callid=8008, sapi=0, ces=1, B-chan=1, calltype=DATA
Active dsl 0 CCBs = 1
The Free Channel Mask: 0x80000002
Number of L2 Discards = 0, L2 Session ID = 11
Total Allocated ISDN CCBs = 1

. debug isdn q921—Shows messages related to the setup of the ISDN connection

between your router and the service provider (Layer 2 information).
. debug isdn q931—Shows messages related to the setup of the ISDN connection

between your router and the destination router (Layer 3 information).
. debug dialer—Enables you to monitor the progress of DDR connections as they dial

and disconnect.

EXAM ALERT
Be familiar with the output and purpose of the show isdn status and show dialer commands.

19_0789735199_CH16.qxd

11/30/05

12:26 PM

Page 603

603

Chapter Summary

Chapter Summary
Even though ISDN is a slowly disappearing technology, it is still in widespread use in major
cities around the world and will probably stay around for many years to come. The beauty of
understanding the ISDN connections is that you now have gained the knowledge of DDR,
which can be applied to many other on-demand connections other than ISDN.
ISDN comes in two flavors: BRI and PRI. The type of ISDN connection you use dictates the
number of B-channels assigned to your bundle. The B-channels are designed to carry data and
have 64Kbps each. The D-channel is used for signaling and uses 16Kbps on BRI ISDN connections or 64Kbps on PRI ISDN connections. BRI is still in widespread use outside the
United States, where PRI seems to be the more popular flavor.
ISDN connections are charged on a per-B-channel, per-minute basis, which introduces the
need for DDR routing. DDR watches for interesting traffic that attempts to cross the ISDN
connection. Traffic is considered interesting if it matches the criteria you have defined in your
dialer list. After the router sees interesting traffic, the ISDN connection is activated and
transmits the data. The ISDN connection remains active as long as interesting traffic continues to cross the link. If there is no interesting traffic, the router waits the amount of time you
have defined in the dialer idle-timeout syntax, which is 2 minutes by default, and then disconnects the line.
ISDN connections can be made more efficient through the use of PPP Multilink and Cisco’s
BOD. These two features enable you to activate more than one B-channel at a time as the
bandwidth demands require. As the network traffic begins to settle down, the B-channels
steadily disconnect. This gives you an automated cost-control mechanism that will keep
unnecessary B-channels from becoming or staying connected longer than they are needed.

Key Terms
. Integrated Service Digital Network

(ISDN)
. Basic Rate Interface (BRI)
. Primary Rate Interface (PRI)
. Bearer channel (B-channel)
. Delta channel (D-channel)
. Common Channel Signaling (CCS)
. Channel Associated Signaling (CAS)
. Q.921

. Q.931
. Network Termination, Type 1 (NT-1)
. Network Termination, Type 2 (NT-2)
. Terminal Endpoint, Type 1 (TE1)
. Terminal Endpoint, Type 2 (TE2)
. Terminal Adapter (TA)
. ISDN switch type
. Service Provider IDentifiers (SPIDs)

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 614

614

Chapter 17: Frame Relay

Introduction
Up until now, most of the WAN connection types discussed so far have provided dedicated
bandwidth. For example, if you purchase a point-to-point leased-line connection at a T1
speed, you have 1.544Mbps at your disposal, 24 hours a day. This bandwidth is there regardless of whether you use it or not. Likewise, if you are using a ISDN BRI connection and dial
the line up, you have 128Kbps of bandwidth at your disposal. Your network might not choose
to send a single packet across the line; regardless, the 128Kbps of bandwidth sits there waiting. But with Frame Relay (and packet-switched networking, in general), the service providers
had a novel idea: If you’re not using your bandwidth, should it just sit there? I think not.
Welcome to the world of Frame Relay, the first connection type where lightning-bolt WAN
links terminate into some sort of fluffy cloud rather than going directly to another router. This
is a place where your destination address is not actually at the destination, but rather, terminates at the source. With Frame Relay, the bandwidth you pay for might just be the beginning
of the bandwidth you get. Yes, my friends, you have entered the WAN Link Twilight Zone.

Frame Relay Overview
Frame Relay is by far the most conceptually complex topic in the CCNA-level material. Much
as with subnetting, though, after you get it, you’ll think it’s the greatest thing since sliced
bread. However, until you get to that point, you’ll probably think people that use Frame Relay
are insane. Unfortunately (or fortunately, depending on your perspective), Frame Relay is one
of the most popular WAN connection types in use in production networks. It offers the high
speed demanded by the networks of today at cut-rate prices that managers love.
Frame Relay connections work quite differently than the typical WAN connections discussed
thus far. Rather than have a single connection from a location to another location (also known
as point-to-point), you might have a connection going from one location to five other locations out a single, physical serial interface. You start to get the feel that this is an ethernet-style
connection where any device connected to a hub can reach any other device plugged into the
same hub. Depending on your Frame Relay configuration, this may not be far from the truth.
Rather than connect sites together through individual physical interfaces, Frame Relay connects sites together with virtual circuits.

Virtual Circuits
Virtual circuits are logical links through service provider networks that give routers the
impression that they are linked directly together. Take a look at Figure 17.1. You have a router
on each side of the service provider cloud, connected through a virtual circuit, signified by a

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 615

615

Virtual Circuits

dotted line through the cloud. These routers believe they are connected directly together (as
if the cloud weren’t there). You could even do a traceroute command between these routers
and it would show only a single hop. However, if you peeled back that cloud, you would find
that these routers are nowhere near directly connected. They would be going through many
service provider routers, through many different networks. Truth be told, the technology
underneath that Frame Relay cloud probably isn’t even Frame Relay. When a frame gets sent
through that cloud, its headers are most likely stripped and replaced many times; it’s shaken,
stirred, and spun around. But by the time it reaches the other end of the virtual circuit, the
original Frame Relay headers are placed back on and a dazed and confused packet walks out of
the cloud reporting that it traveled only a single hop between the source and the destination.
For now, it’s best to say that what happens in the cloud, stays in the cloud. Unless you’re a service provider, this is how most network administrators prefer to leave it.

Your Router

Your Router
Frame Relay
Service Provider

Your Router

FIGURE 17.1
Your Router

Typical Frame Relay
network diagram.

Although you aren’t concerned with what happens within the cloud, you do need to understand the circuits that ride over the cloud. These virtual circuits define the devices you are able
to reach. The more virtual circuits you purchase to connect your various locations, the more
redundant the connections will be; at the same time, the monthly cost will rise significantly.
Therefore, there are three major design strategies to provisioning Frame Relay virtual circuits.

Hub and Spoke Design
Every network looks for cost efficiency. Redundancy is often sacrificed on the altar of monthly cost. Thus, the hub and spoke Frame Relay network design is one of the more common. In
this configuration, you pick a centralized location (most likely, your largest, most connected
office) as the “hub” of the network. All other locations are considered “spokes” and have a single virtual circuit connection back to the hub. Figure 17.2 gives a visual of what this looks like.

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 616

616

Chapter 17: Frame Relay

Spoke

Hub
Frame Relay
Service Provider

Spoke

Hub and
spoke Frame Relay
design.

FIGURE 17.2
Spoke

Initially, it appears as though the spoke offices will be unable to reach each other. However,
you can configure them to traverse through the hub location if they ever need to communicate. Typically, in this network design, the spoke offices rarely communicate with each other.
Rather, they access servers, store information, send email, and so on through the hub office.
The major advantage of this configuration is the cost. It offers the cheapest monthly price tag,
which cost-cutting corporations enjoy. The disadvantages are beginning to mount against this
design, however. The redundancy is sorely lacking. If a single router (the central router) loses
connectivity for any reason (if the router crashes, if a trenching company cuts through the
line), your entire WAN goes down. The other disadvantage of this design is beginning to
eclipse even redundancy. It is the disadvantage of tandem switching. Any time the spoke offices
need to reach each other, they must go through the hub office. This is considered a tandem
switch. Tandem switching takes time and adds delay for the end-to-end connection. Up until
modern times, this was no big deal; file transfers between spoke offices would just move a little slower. One technology has pushed tandem switching from a priority level of “No big deal”
to “Heaven help us, the sky is falling.” That technology is Voice over IP (VoIP).
VoIP technology involves moving the telephone system from running on its own network to
using the data network as a backbone for communication. VoIP has very strict delay requirements that can be easily exceeded anytime sources of delay (such as a tandem switch) are introduced. Now, anytime employees working in the spoke offices call each other (which happens
quite a bit more frequently than file transfer), the call quality may sound like a bad cell phone
call. Therefore, most companies that are looking to move into a VoIP environment typically
redesign their Frame Relay network to minimize the number of tandem switches that occur.

Partial Mesh Design
You can think of the partial mesh Frame Relay design as the compromise between network
administrators and cost-saving managers. In this configuration, key sites have redundant virtual circuit connections through the cloud, as shown in Figure 17.3.

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 617

617

Virtual Circuits

Frame Relay
Service Provider
Barney
Fred

Betty

FIGURE 17.3 Partial mesh
Frame Relay design.

Wilma

This gives them a level of redundancy and minimizes the number of tandem switches required
for them to communicate. Less critical locations have fewer virtual circuit connections, which
keeps the cost lower.

Full Mesh Design
If the partial mesh design is a compromise between the network administrators and managers,
then the full mesh design implies that the network administrators won. This design is every
Cisco network administrator’s picture of perfection over a Frame Relay cloud. It gives every
site a direct virtual circuit to every other site, as shown in Figure 17.4. This design gives maximum redundancy and minimum packet latency (latency describes how long it takes a packet
to reach each location). Of course, this type of service comes at a cost, the highest cost of all
Frame Relay network designs.

Frame Relay
Service Provider
Bart
Homer

Lisa

Full mesh
Frame Relay design.

FIGURE 17.4
Marge

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 618

618

Chapter 17: Frame Relay

Frame Relay Terminology
As with most Cisco concepts, you’ll find that the configuration piece of Frame Relay is fairly
simple; the difficulty appears when you try to understand the concepts behind the configuration. Frame Relay introduces a plethora of new terms that describe the end-to-end communication. The first term you have already seen: a virtual circuit. You’ll now find out that there
are two types of virtual circuits.

Permanent Virtual Circuit
A permanent virtual circuit (PVC) is a permanently established circuit through the Frame
Relay service provider network. It enables the routers at each end to communicate with each
other without any setup process. A PVC closely emulates a leased-line connection between
your devices.

Switched Virtual Circuit
A switched virtual circuit (SVC) gives you an “on-demand” connection through the Frame
Relay cloud. The connection from end-to-end is built as the routers require it and may be
billed on a usage basis (very much like ISDN connections). SVC connections have largely
decreased in use in recent years (almost to the point of non-existence) because service
providers no longer have true end-to-end Frame Relay connections, but rather, convert from
Frame Relay to some other network type after you transmit data into the cloud. If this seems
odd, remember: What happens in the cloud, stays in the cloud.

Local Management Interface
The local management interface (LMI) signaling is the “language of love” between your router
and the service provider. Using LMI, the service provider can transmit status information
about the state of your virtual circuits to your router. In recent versions of the IOS, your router
can auto-detect what LMI language the service provider uses. In older IOS versions, this must
be manually configured under the interface.

Data Link Connection Identifier
It is a little known fact that router serial interfaces do not have MAC addresses. MAC addresses are related only to LAN connections. WAN connections therefore all have different Layer
2 addresses that they use to identify the other side of the connection. In the case of Frame
Relay, this is known as a Data Link Connection Identifier (DLCI). Communicating through
DLCIs is unlike most other network communication that you’ve seen thus far. Rather than

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 619

619

Frame Relay Terminology

access a destination DLCI number to reach the remote router, you leave on a local DLCI number to reach a remote router. This is very similar to the way airline travel works. When you
want to fly to a remote destination, say North Dakota, you might leave on flight #4513. When
you want to return from North Dakota to your original location, you might leave on fight
#4839. This means that the DLCI numbers you use are locally significant; the DLCIs you have
in Arizona matter only to the router in Arizona. The DLCIs you have in North Dakota matter only to the router in North Dakota. Look at Figure 17.5 for a network diagram.

Frame Relay
Service Provider

705
401

507
Arizona

California

508
104
508

FIGURE 17.5
Michigan

Frame

Relay DLCIs.

Figure 17.5 shows a full mesh design with three locations: Arizona, California, and Michigan.
At each location, the routers have two virtual circuits that enable them to reach the other locations. Now remember, the way DLCIs work is you leave on a local DLCI number rather than
access a remote DLCI, so if Arizona wants to reach California, it uses DLCI number 507 to
get there. If California wants to get back to Arizona, it uses DLCI 705. Likewise, California
uses DLCI 401 to reach the router in Michigan.
Because DLCIs are locally significant, service providers can do whatever they want with them.
Take a look at the DLCI connection between Arizona and Michigan. It’s not a mistype!
Arizona is assigned to use DLCI 508 to reach Michigan. Michigan also uses DLCI 508 to
reach Arizona. This seems to make no sense until you realize that the DLCI number 508
means something totally different if it is received in Arizona than if it is received in Michigan.
Remember: locally significant. The service provider probably has DLCI 508 in use in many
locations for many different customers. As long as the set of DLCIs is unique at each location,
everything is fine with the Frame Relay standards.

Local Access Rate
The Local Access Rate (commonly called the line speed) is the maximum physical speed that
your Frame Relay connection can attain. Today’s Frame Relay connections can usually reach
up to T3 speeds (just over 44Mbps). This maximum can vary depending on the area in which
you are and the service provider you are using. This does not define how fast your virtual circuits can travel. That’s the job of the Committed Information Rate (which is covered next).
However, the accumulation of all the bandwidth on all your virtual circuits can never exceed
the router’s Local Access Rate.

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 620

620

Chapter 17: Frame Relay

Committed Information Rate
With a Frame Relay connection, really just two things heavily affect the price of the connection: first, the number of virtual circuits you purchase, and second, the Committed
Information Rate (CIR) for each one of those virtual circuits. The CIR is the minimum speed
the service provider commits to give you for the circuit at all times. It’s your guarantee.
Typically, you get more bandwidth than what your CIR dictates, but if the service provider
starts running thin on bandwidth allocations, it can contractually cut your location’s virtual circuits down to the minimum amount of bandwidth defined by your CIR.
Now here’s the major concept: Each PVC you purchase has its own CIR. This can be mindboggling because you just learned about the Local Access Rate, which defines the maximum
physical speed of the connection. Frame Relay enables you to divide up your connections,
assigning a CIR for each PVC destination. Take a look at Figure 17.6.

Line Speed
1.544Mbps
Arizona

California
CIR 500Kbps
CIR 450Kbps
CIR 300Kbps
Frame Relay
Service Provider

Missouri

FIGURE 17.6
Oregon

Frame

Relay CIR.

You now have a hub and spoke Frame Relay design where Arizona is connected to California,
Missouri, and Oregon. Focus for the moment on Arizona: The Local Access Rate is shown as
T1 speed—1.544Mbps. Each PVC has its own CIR: The PVC to California is rated at a CIR
of 500Kbps, the PVC to Missouri uses a CIR of 450Kbps, and the connection to Oregon uses
a 300Kbps CIR. Notice that the total bandwidth of all the PVCs does not exceed the Local
Access Rate of the line. Remember, the CIR is the minimum amount of bandwidth the service provider gives you. If you oversubscribe your Local Access Rate with the sum of all the
CIRs, you may be physically limiting how much bandwidth the service provider would be
willing to give you (and paying too much for your connection).
Many service providers offer extremely low-cost Frame Relay connections that are rated at a
zero CIR. This means that you’ll probably get bandwidth, but the service provider does not
guarantee anything. When signing up for one of these connections, be sure to use a reputable
service provider because some of the smaller service providers may be oversubscribing their
network with these connections and not have enough bandwidth to give you a reliable connection.

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 621

621

Frame Relay Terminology

Backwards Explicit Congestion Notification
Because service providers allow you to burst above your CIR (using more bandwidth than
you’re paying for), you have the potential of taking advantage of the service provider. If not
configured differently, your router will attempt to send across all PVCs at the maximum speed
the physical interface can handle (your Local Access Rate). If there is a large mismatch between
your CIR and the Local Access Rate, your PVC will soon begin to become congested. The
service provider will send messages to the router sending the large amount of traffic attempting to tell it to slow down. This is known as a Backwards Explicit Congestion Notification
(BECN) message. The method the service provider uses to send this notification is important
to understand.
Because of the way PVCs are engineered, the service provider cannot communicate directly to
the router sending the data. Instead, it modifies the headers of return traffic to notify the person sending the excessive amount of data. For example, imagine that you were sitting at the
Arizona location (from the prior Figure 17.6) transferring a large file to the California location via FTP. The entire time you are sending this file, the California site is sending TCP
Acknowledgments (ACKs) back to confirm the data receipt. If the Arizona site is excessively
exceeding the CIR, the service provider flips a bit (known as the BECN bit) in the header of
the ACK messages to notify the sender that it needs to slow down.
By default, your Cisco router ignores the BECN message (what audacity!). It does so because
BECN response falls under a major configuration called Frame Relay Traffic Shaping, which
you’ll learn plenty about if you decide to continue on into the CCNP courses. It is to your
advantage to drop your speed when you receive a BECN message because the service provider
will soon thereafter liquidate the vast majority of your traffic in the Frame Relay cloud, causing drastic performance reductions.

Forwards Explicit Congestion Notification
This one is one of the most misunderstood of all Frame Relay terms. After you understand the
concept of a BECN, it seems logical to assume a Forward Explicit Congestion Notification
(FECN) tells the receiving side of the connection to slow down. This is not true at all. Why
would a Frame Relay service provider tell the receiver to slow down? It is not sending any traffic, just receiving it. Instead, a FECN message is used to tell the receiver to generate traffic
that the service provider can tag with a BECN to tell the sender to slow down. I’m sure you’re
thinking, “What?!?” Here’s an example.
Again, you have a device in Arizona sending traffic to the California location. This time, they
are sending an enormous video stream (which uses UDP communication). UDP requires no
acknowledgments, so the service provider has no return traffic to mark as a BECN to tell the
sender to slow down. Instead, it tags some of the traffic heading to the receiver. This is known
as a FECN (it uses the same bit in the header as the BECN, but is interpreted as a FECN

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 622

622

Chapter 17: Frame Relay

because it is sent the other way). If the receiving router is configured to support FECNs, it
generates some “junk” (called a Q.922 test frame), puts it in a frame, and sends it back to the
sender. The junk in the packet is really junk. The sending router in Arizona drops it after it is
received. All it’s there for is to give the service provider something to tag to tell Arizona to slow
down. So, a FECN message is just a method to generate some traffic so the service provider
can send a BECN.

Discard Eligible
This term describes any traffic that you send above the CIR you have purchased. Because you
are using bandwidth that you did not pay for, the service provider automatically tags your
packets as Discard Eligible (written as De—that’s D subscript e). Just because a packet is
marked De doesn’t mean it will be discarded. Most the time it make it across the Frame Relay
network just fine. What the De marking means is if the service provider experiences congestion, guess which packets are the first to go—yep, the packets tagged as De.
When you get deeper into Frame Relay traffic shaping (later in your Cisco career), you’ll discover that there’s a way to mark your own traffic De. This enables you to be selective with what
traffic is marked De rather than use the random selection of the service provider. This can keep
your high-priority traffic from being sent above the CIR.

The Nature of NBMA Networks
Frame Relay networks fall under the umbrella of Non-Broadcast Multi-Access (NBMA) networks. As the name implies, these networks allow multiple devices to access the network, but
do not allow broadcast between them. Although this is their default behavior, you can configure your Cisco router to treat the network however you’d like. Because NBMA networks allow
traffic between only the sites for which you purchase PVCs, this leads to some very odd configurations. The hub and spoke topology can be very confusing to manage until you understand the problems associated with these network types.
One of the major problems that can be encountered is that of running distance vector routing
protocols over a Frame Relay network. These routing protocols (which include RIP, IGRP,
and even EIGRP) have a built-in loop prevention mechanism called split-horizon. This mechanism prevents a router from sending an update out the same interface as that on which it
received an update. Figure 17.7 shows where the problems begin with the default Frame Relay
configuration.

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 623

623

Subinterfaces

RIP Update not sent
due to Split-Horizon
Fa2/0
172.16.35.1/24

X

Frame Relay
Service Provider

305

S0 192.168.5.2/24

503

Nevada S0/0 192.168.5.1/24

Washington

504
405

RIP Update RE:
172.16.30.0/24

FIGURE 17.7

E0
172.16.20.1/24

New Mexico
S0/0 192.168.5.3/24
E0/0
172.16.30.1/24

Split-horizon issues in Frame Relay networks.

This figure shows a typical hub and spoke configuration between Nevada, Washington, and
New Mexico. Because this network is so simple, this company has decided to use the RIP routing protocol. Here’s how the problem starts: New Mexico sends an RIP routing update to
Nevada regarding its 172.16.30.0/24 network. Nevada receives the update coming in its S0
interface. Now the spilt-horizon rule steps in and tells the Nevada router not to send that routing update back out the interface on which it was received. Washington never hears about the
172.16.30.0 network through the RIP protocol and is unable to access any devices at that location. The same thing goes for the Washington network. The advertisement reaches the
Nevada router, but is never sent to New Mexico because of the split-horizon rule.
Two methods are used to solve this problem. First, you can disable the split-horizon mechanism altogether. This is a risky move because you are then relying on the other loop prevention mechanisms to keep a loop from happening in the network. The second method is to use
subinterfaces.

EXAM ALERT
Know the terminology behind Frame Relay. Especially ensure you understand the CIR and DLCI concepts.

Subinterfaces
Using subinterfaces to solve your split-horizon problem is the best way to go. Subinterfaces
enable you to break your single, physical interface into multiple, logical interfaces. You still

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 624

624

Chapter 17: Frame Relay

have only a single physical connection to the Frame Relay service provider, however, your
router sees it as multiple connections. There are two categories of Frame Relay subinterfaces:
point-to-point and multipoint. Only the point-to-point interface type is designed to fix the
split-horizon issue by creating a subinterface for each PVC connection. However, because
we’re talking about subinterfaces, it would be a good idea to talk about multipoint as well.

Multipoint Subinterfaces
Forgive me for allowing my opinion to get in the way of a neutral CCNA book, but multipoint
interfaces are about as useful as a squirt gun for a scuba diver. This subinterface type enables
you to have multiple PVCs terminating under a single, logical subinterface. This type of subinterface is how a physical interface behaves if no subinterfaces are created. It still encounters the
same split-horizon issues, forcing you to disable split-horizon. You might wonder, “How is this
type of subinterface helpful then?” Like I said…squirt gun for a scuba diver. Multipoint subinterfaces can be useful in other, non–Frame Relay deployments, but in Frame Relay they cause
more trouble than anything.

Point-to-Point Subinterfaces
This subinterface type enables you to logically design your Frame Relay network as a series of
point-to-point connections, no matter how complex your PVC configuration may be. Each
PVC circuit is assigned to a single, point-to-point subinterface. This solves the split-horizon
issue without much intervention from you because the Cisco router now sees each PVC as its
own interface. For example, if a routing update is received on Serial 0, split-horizon blocks that
update from being sent back out Serial 0. After you configure point-to-point subinterfaces correctly, the router sees an update come in on one of the subinterfaces, such as Serial 0.10. It has
no problem sending that update out another subinterface, such as Serial 0.20, because it sees
these interfaces as two, distinct ports.

Address Mapping in Frame Relay
Frame Relay functions at the Data Link layer of the OSI model. It provides services for the
WAN just as ethernet provides services for the LAN. Because everything we do today typically relies on IP addresses, Frame Relay needs to have a way of mapping its Data Link layer
address (a DLCI) to a Network layer address (typically an IP address). For example, your
router may know that it can reach some location through DLCI 505, but DLCI 505 doesn’t
really mean anything to your router. Your router works with IP addresses, not DLCI numbers.
So to allow DLCI 505 to mean something, your router needs to somehow map this to the IP
address that DLCI 505 can reach. There are two methods you can use to accomplish this:
Inverse ARP and static mappings.

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 625

625

Address Mapping in Frame Relay

Inverse ARP
Inverse ARP is the router’s automated method to map DLCIs to IP addresses. It works as follows:
1. You connect your router to the Frame Relay service provider through a serial interface.
2. The service provider uses LMI to identify your router and send your router a list of

DLCIs it can use to reach your remote sites.
3. Your router sends Inverse ARP messages to each one of these DLCI numbers. This

Inverse ARP message carries the simple message, “Hello DLCI! Please send your IP
address.”
4. The remote router receives the message and responds with its IP address.
5. Your router maps the DLCI number to the IP address it received.

The router sends these Inverse ARP messages to each DLCI number it has received until it
has a complete mapping table of DLCI numbers to IP addresses. All along, you as the administrator have done…nothing! This is a completely automated process that makes the Frame
Relay setup seamless for small environments. The only drawback to this method is it does not
work for subinterfaces. For Inverse ARP to function properly, you must leave all assigned
DLCIs under the physical interface, which causes this interface to become a multipoint interface (if you have multiple DLCI numbers). As you have already seen, multipoint interfaces
have problems with split-horizon.

Static Mappings
The alternative to allowing Inverse ARP to automatically configure your environment is to use
static maps. This method is also specific to multipoint-style interfaces. Using this method, you
can manually enter the DLCI to IP address mapping for each PVC. This gives you complete
control over the mapping process and enables you to have more than one interface (unlike
Inverse ARP). The specifics of this configuration, along with the considerations for point-topoint interfaces, are covered later in this chapter.

EXAM ALERT
Know what the differences are between Inverse ARP Frame Relay configuration and static mappings.

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 626

626

Chapter 17: Frame Relay

Configuring Frame Relay
Configuring Frame Relay can be very simple or slightly complex, depending on your network
requirements and design. I’d like to walk you through three configuration scenarios, explaining step-by-step how each piece is configured. By time you’re finished here, you’ll be a Frame
Relay expert. The three configuration scenarios are as follows:
. Configuring Frame Relay for a single neighbor
. Configuring Frame Relay that uses a multipoint interface
. Configuring Frame Relay that uses a point-to-point interface

Configuring Frame Relay for a Single Neighbor
This configuration is the simplest one to set up for Frame Relay. Because the router does
most of the work for you in this configuration, many people call this a Frame Relay autoconfiguration. It is helpful to walk through this configuration step-by-step, first looking at
Figure 17.8.

Fa2/0
172.16.35.1/24

E0
172.16.20.1/24
305

503

Alabama S0/0 192.168.5.1/24

Frame Relay
Service Provider

S0 192.168.5.2/24

Alaska

FIGURE 17.8

Simple Frame
Relay configuration.

There are two locations in this scenario: Alabama and Alaska. This configuration is really a
point-to-point style connection, we’re just going through a Frame Relay cloud to accomplish
it. Alabama uses DLCI 503 to reach Alaska, and Alaska uses DLCI 305 to reach Alabama.
You’ve already configured the necessary IP addresses for the network requirements; all that’s
left to do is configure the Frame Relay connection. Let’s have at it!
Step 1: Turn on Frame Relay Encapsulation
Start on the Alabama router to get familiar with your surroundings:
Alabama#show ip interface brief
Interface
IP-Address
Serial0/0
192.168.5.1
Serial0/1
unassigned
Serial0/2
unassigned

OK? Method Status
Protocol
YES manual administratively down down
YES unset administratively down down
YES unset administratively down down

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 627

627

Configuring Frame Relay
Serial0/3
FastEthernet2/0

unassigned
172.16.35.1

YES unset administratively down down
YES manual up
up

It looks as though the Fast Ethernet interface is up and running, and the Serial 0/0 interface
has an IP address, but needs a little work beyond. First turn on the Frame Relay encapsulation:
Alabama#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
Alabama(config)#interface serial 0/0
Alabama(config-if)#encapsulation frame-relay ?
ietf Use RFC1490/RFC2427 encapsulation
<cr>
Alabama(config-if)#encapsulation frame-relay
Alabama(config-if)#

Take a look at this. When you access the Serial interface and type encapsulation framerelay ?, you are given the option of either hitting the Enter key or adding the ietf keyword

after the command. If you just press the Enter key, the router uses Cisco proprietary Frame
Relay encapsulation. The Cisco proprietary version of encapsulation came out before the
industry standard (ietf) Frame Relay encapsulation and uses a slightly different method for
identifying the Layer 3 protocol (IP, IPX, and so on) that is being encapsulated. This makes it
incompatible with the industry standard Frame Relay encapsulation. What it boils down to is
this: If you are connecting two Cisco routers over a Frame Relay network, use the command
encapsulation frame-relay to configure each side. If you are connecting your Cisco router
to a non-Cisco device, use the command encapsulation frame-relay ietf to use the industry standard Frame Relay encapsulation.

EXAM ALERT
Be sure to know how to configure Frame Relay encapsulation between Cisco and non-Cisco routers.

The example wants to connect two Cisco routers, so you can use the Cisco proprietary encapsulation. Watch what happens when the Serial 0/0 interface on the Alabama router is brought
up:
Alabama(config-if)#no shutdown
Alabama(config-if)#
*Mar 1 00:23:40.571: %LINK-3-UPDOWN: Interface Serial0/0,
➥changed state to up
Alabama(config-if)#
*Mar 1 00:23:51.571: %LINEPROTO-5-UPDOWN: Line protocol on Interface
➥Serial0/0, changed state to up

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 628

628

Chapter 17: Frame Relay

It looks like the interface has come up, so now it’s time get out to privileged mode and verify
that everything is working as expected. The first command you can use to check the connection is show frame-relay lmi. Remember, LMI (the Local Management Interface) is the language of love between you and your service provider. The service provider uses this language
to send status messages, DLCI information, and line statistics to your local router. This is the
lowest level of Frame Relay communication. If it is not working, nothing will be working.
Alabama#show frame-relay lmi
LMI Statistics for interface Serial0/0 (Frame Relay DTE) LMI TYPE = CISCO
Invalid Unnumbered info 0
Invalid Prot Disc 0
Invalid dummy Call Ref 0
Invalid Msg Type 0
Invalid Status Message 0
Invalid Lock Shift 0
Invalid Information ID 0
Invalid Report IE Len 0
Invalid Report Request 0
Invalid Keep IE Len 0
Num Status Enq. Sent 36
Num Status msgs Rcvd 35
Num Update Status Rcvd 0
Num Status Timeouts 1

Focus on the key information here, which has been conveniently bolded for you. You can see
that you have sent 36 status messages and received 35 messages. This is good. These numbers
should be relatively equal and increasing on a steady basis. If the connection is failing, you will
see the Num Status Timeouts field increment steadily. You can think of these messages as
keepalives for your Frame Relay connection. Your router is saying “Hello” to the service
provider (Num Status Enq. Sent) and the service provider is saying “Hello back” (Num
Status msgs Rcvd). Now let’s move up to the next level.
Alabama#show frame-relay pvc
PVC Statistics for interface Serial0/0 (Frame Relay DTE)

Local
Switched
Unused

Active
0
0
0

Inactive
0
0
1

Deleted
0
0
0

Static
0
0
0

DLCI = 503, DLCI USAGE = UNUSED, PVC STATUS = INACTIVE, INTERFACE =
➥Serial0/0
input pkts 0
output pkts 0
in bytes 0
out bytes 0
dropped pkts 0
in pkts dropped 0
out pkts dropped 0
out bytes dropped 0
in FECN pkts 0
in BECN pkts 0
out FECN pkts 0
out BECN pkts 0
in DE pkts 0
out DE pkts 0
out bcast pkts 0
out bcast bytes 0
5 minute input rate 0 bits/sec, 0 packets/sec
5 minute output rate 0 bits/sec, 0 packets/sec
switched pkts 0

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 629

629

Configuring Frame Relay
Detailed packet drop counters:
no out intf 0
out intf down 0
no out PVC 0
in PVC down 0
out PVC down 0
pkt too big 0
shaping Q full 0
pkt above DE 0
policing drop 0
pvc create time 00:09:59, last time pvc status changed 00:09:34

By using the show frame-relay pvc command, you can see all your virtual circuit connections over the Frame Relay cloud. Notice that none of this has been configured. The service
provider actually sent the usable DLCI information to you with the LMI signaling! Your
router (Alabama) received DLCI 503 from the service provider. Referring back to the network
diagram in Figure 17.8, you can see that this is exactly the DLCI information you want to
receive. But there seems to be a problem: The DLCI is marked as INACTIVE. This is where
understanding the four PVC states can come in very handy:
. Active—A PVC marked as ACTIVE is successfully connected through between the

two endpoints (routers). This is the normal state if everything is working properly.
. Inactive—A PVC marked as INACTIVE is working properly on your end of the con-

nection (the local side); however, the other side of the connection is either not configured or offline.
. Deleted—A PVC marked as DELETED is having problems at your side (local side) of

the connection. Most likely, you are attempting to use a DLCI number that the service
provider has not configured.
. Static—A PVC marked as STATIC has been manually entered by you (the administra-

tor) rather than dynamically discovered from the service provider.

EXAM ALERT
Understanding the states of a PVC can be quite useful in both the real world and the testing environment.

Whew! Quite a bit of information there applies directly to what you are seeing right now.
Because the PVC is marked as INACTIVE, it means that your side (Alabama) is working just
fine; it’s the remote side (Alaska) that is having the problem. This is where you suddenly realize that you are not just the administrator in Alabama, but also the administrator for Alaska as
well. You need to jump on a plane (or use a telnet connection) to reach the Alaska router and
configure that side of the connection.
Alaska#show ip interface brief
Interface
IP-Address
Ethernet0
172.16.20.1
Ethernet1
unassigned
Serial0
192.168.5.2
Serial1
unassigned

OK? Method Status
Protocol
YES NVRAM up
up
YES unset administratively down down
YES NVRAM administratively down down
YES unset administratively down down

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 630

630

Chapter 17: Frame Relay

It looks as if Alaska is in the same state as Alabama was when you first got involved in the configuration. Turn on Frame Relay encapsulation and power on the interface:
Alaska#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
Alaska(config)#interface serial 0
Alaska(config-if)#encapsulation frame-relay
Alaska(config-if)#no shutdown
Alaska(config-if)#
00:26:42: %LINK-3-UPDOWN: Interface Serial0, changed state to up
00:26:53: %LINEPROTO-5-UPDOWN: Line protocol on Interface Serial0,
➥changed state to up
00:28:42: %FR-5-DLCICHANGE: Interface Serial0 - DLCI 305 state
➥changed to ACTIVE

Take a look at that—the Line Protocol (data link connectivity) on the Serial interface came up
and the DLCI 305 went ACTIVE. Now do the same verification commands you did on
Alabama to see what things look like:
Alaska(config-if)#^Z
Alaska#show frame lmi
LMI Statistics for interface Serial0 (Frame Relay DTE) LMI TYPE = CISCO
Invalid Unnumbered info 0
Invalid Prot Disc 0
Invalid dummy Call Ref 0
Invalid Msg Type 0
Invalid Status Message 0
Invalid Lock Shift 0
Invalid Information ID 0
Invalid Report IE Len 0
Invalid Report Request 0
Invalid Keep IE Len 0
Num Status Enq. Sent 53
Num Status msgs Rcvd 54
Num Update Status Rcvd 0
Num Status Timeouts 0
Alaska#show frame pvc
PVC Statistics for interface Serial0 (Frame Relay DTE)
DLCI = 305, DLCI USAGE = LOCAL, PVC STATUS = ACTIVE, INTERFACE = Serial0
input pkts 1
output pkts 1
in bytes 30
out bytes 30
dropped pkts 0
in FECN pkts 0
in BECN pkts 0
out FECN pkts 0
out BECN pkts 0
in DE pkts 0
out DE pkts 0
out bcast pkts 1
out bcast bytes 30
pvc create time 00:00:59, last time pvc status changed 00:01:00

Right on! The PVC status is now viewed as ACTIVE from the perspective of Alaska, which
implicitly implies that Alabama is working as well (because ACTIVE indicates both sides of
the connection are working as they should). So, hold your breath—now it’s time to do the final

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 631

631

Configuring Frame Relay

test: to ping from Alaska to Alabama, which acts as an end-to-end test of Network layer (Layer
3) connectivity:
Alaska#ping 192.168.5.1
Type escape sequence to abort.
Sending 5, 100-byte ICMP Echos to 192.168.5.1, timeout is 2 seconds:
!!!!!
Success rate is 100 percent (5/5), round-trip min/avg/max = 60/60/60 ms

YES!!! That’s exactly what you want to see. Five exclamation points indicating five successful,
round-trip ping messages over the Frame Relay network. Isn’t this exciting?
So let me summarize what it took to get a point-to-point Frame Relay connection running:
1. Turn on Frame Relay encapsulation.
That’s it! Of course, there are some prerequisite steps, such as assigning IP addresses and turning on the interface. It may have seemed like a bigger process because of the verification commands that were performed. However, if you have just a single connection over the Frame
Relay cloud, the service provider sends both sides of the connection their DLCI information
through LMI signaling. The router then uses Inverse ARP messages to discover the IP address
on the remote end of the connection. After the remote IP address is discovered, the router
makes the connection between the local DLCI and remote IP address. Look at one more show
command:
Alaska#show frame-relay map
Serial0 (up): ip 192.168.5.1 dlci 305(0x131,0x4C10), dynamic,
broadcast,, status defined, active

From the Alaska router’s perspective, you can see from using the show frame-relay map command that the router has mapped the Alabama router’s IP address (192.168.5.1) to the local
DLCI the Alaska router uses to reach that IP address (305). You can also see that this map was
dynamically defined, which means that the Cisco router made this link between IP and DLCI
numbers with Inverse ARP.
So the key to allowing Cisco routers to configure the Frame Relay connection themselves is
to ensure the LMI is working correctly between your router and the service provider, which
brings us to the closing point of this section.
If you are using an extremely old version of the IOS (any version earlier than 11.2), the router
is unable to auto-detect what LMI language the service provider is using. This means you must
manually configure it with the following syntax:
Router(config-if)#frame-relay lmi-type ?
cisco
ansi
q933a

To determine which LMI signaling you should use, you need to contact your service provider.

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 632

632

Chapter 17: Frame Relay

EXAM ALERT
Be sure to know the LMI types and be able to pick them out of a line-up. It is also key to remember
that “ietf” is a Frame Relay encapsulation type. IETF is not an LMI type.

Configuring Frame Relay That Uses a Multipoint
Interface
Now, the scenario has expanded with the addition of another office to the mix. This change is
reflected in Figure 17.9.

Frame Relay
Service Provider

Fa2/0
172.16.35.1/24

305

E0
172.16.20.1/24

S0 192.168.5.2/24
503

Alabama S0/0 192.168.5.1/24

Alaska

504

Arizona

405
S0/0 192.168.5.3/24

E0/0
172.16.15.1/24

FIGURE 17.9

Frame Relay configuration with multiple locations.

The Arizona office has entered the picture and moved this story to a hub and spoke design.
Alabama is the hub of the network, having PVC connections to both Alaska and Arizona. To
save on cost, Alaska and Arizona are not directly connected and must use their PVC to
Alabama anytime they would like to reach each other. Notice the IP addressing in this figure
as well: All routers are configured on the same subnet (192.168.5.0/24) for their WAN connections. This IP addressing tells you that you are using a point-to-multipoint design. The
routers think the WAN operates just like an ethernet network where all points connected to
the network are able to reach all other points in the network. If you were using a point-topoint design (a much better design, in my humble opinion), each PVC would be on its own
subnet, just as if you had point-to-point WAN links through the Frame Relay cloud. The
point-to-point design is discussed a little bit later; for now, it’s time to focus on making the
point-to-multipoint design work successfully.

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 633

633

Configuring Frame Relay

Configuring a multipoint interface can be done in two ways: You can either place the configuration under the physical interface itself or use a subinterface. Let me demonstrate. You’ve
already done plenty of configuration on the physical interface, just by placing commands
directly under the Serial interface. If you want to configure a subinterface, this is how the
process looks:
Alaska#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line.
Alaska(config)#interface serial 0.?
<0-4294967295> Serial interface number

End with CNTL/Z.

Alaska(config)#interface serial 0.10 ?
multipoint
Treat as a multipoint link
point-to-point Treat as a point-to-point link
Alaska(config)#interface serial 0.10 multipoint
Alaska(config-subif)#

In this case, the multipoint subinterface Serial 0.10 has been created. The subinterface number you choose is completely up to you. As you can see, you can use numbers from zero up to
slightly more than 4 billion (Cisco is all about flexibility). In this case, I chose 10. If you were
using this for your Frame Relay configuration, you could remove all commands from the physical interface (Serial 0) except for the encapsulation frame-relay command and place them
under the subinterface. At this point, there’s no real advantage to configuring Frame Relay
with subinterfaces because you are using a multipoint configuration. After you get to point-topoint, you’ll see the many advantages of this configuration. For now, you can save a little complexity and just configure everything under the physical interface.
If you had a full mesh Frame Relay design where every location had a PVC to every other location, this setup would take care of itself just like the previous configuration you saw. Each location would send an Inverse ARP message out on its PVCs and figure out how to connect to
everyone else. However, if you look at the figure, you can see that there is no full mesh of virtual circuits. Alabama will work just fine in this design because it has PVCs to each location.
Alaska and Arizona are going to have some problems if you just leave everything in its default
configuration. The Inverse ARP message will be able to discover Alabama because it is directly at the end of the PVC; however, the Inverse ARP message does not “bounce through.”
Alaska does not discover Arizona and vice versa. This is where Frame Relay maps come in
handy. You can manually configure each site by defining static maps dictating which DLCIs
connect to each remote IP address. Even though it is not necessary to manually configure
Alabama, it is a good practice not to mix dynamic and static configurations. If you want to use
dynamic, it should be in use everywhere. Likewise, if you want to use static, use it everywhere.
So the first thing to do is to configure the hub of the network, Alabama:
Alabama#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line.

End with CNTL/Z.

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 634

634

Chapter 17: Frame Relay
Alabama(config)#interface serial 0/0
Alabama(config-if)#frame-relay map ?
bridge Bridging
ip
IP
llc2
llc2
Alabama(config-if)#frame-relay map ip ?
A.B.C.D Protocol specific address
Alabama(config-if)#frame-relay map ip 192.168.5.2 ?
<16-1007> DLCI
Alabama(config-if)#frame-relay map ip 192.168.5.2 503 ?
broadcast
Broadcasts should be forwarded to this address
cisco
Use CISCO Encapsulation
compress
Enable TCP/IP and RTP/IP header compression
ietf
Use RFC1490/RFC2427 Encapsulation
nocompress
Do not compress TCP/IP headers
payload-compression Use payload compression
rtp
RTP header compression parameters
tcp
TCP header compression parameters
<cr>
Alabama(config-if)#frame-relay map ip 192.168.5.2 503 broadcast
Alabama(config-if)#frame-relay map ip 192.168.5.3 504 broadcast

You’ve now statically mapped the DLCI numbers to the remote IP addresses. Remember, after
you do this, you’ve overruled the Inverse ARP process; you are now taking the role of Inverse
ARP under your belt. Look at the first static map: It tells the router, “If you would like to reach
the remote IP address 192.168.5.2, use the local DLCI number 503.” Likewise, the second line
says, “To reach the remote IP address 192.168.5.3, use the local DLCI number 504.”
It’s also important to talk about the last option added to the syntax, broadcast. By default,
your router treats the Frame Relay cloud just like the type of network it is: NBMA. Therefore,
your routing protocols (which use multicast and broadcast traffic) will not work over a Frame
Relay network. If you would like the router to forward broadcasts over the Frame Relay cloud,
attach the broadcast keyword onto the end of the Frame Relay map.
You can also see from the context-sensitive help that you have many other options in addition
to the broadcast keyword that you can add to the end of the Frame Relay map. Most of these
options deal with the various flavors of compression that you can enable over the Frame Relay
network if you wish. However, the other two highlighted options are of key importance. The
keywords cisco and ietf define whether the remote router is a Cisco router or some other
brand that uses the IETF industry-standard Frame Relay encapsulation. You might have
noticed that neither command was entered under the map statement. The Cisco router uses the
Cisco Frame Relay encapsulation by default. If you are connecting to non-Cisco routers, be
sure to add the ietf keyword to the each map.

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 635

635

Configuring Frame Relay

Now you can move on to the Alaska and Arizona routers:
Alaska#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
Alaska(config)#interface serial 0
Alaska(config-if)#frame map ip 192.168.5.1 305 broadcast
Alaska(config-if)#frame map ip 192.168.5.3 305 broadcast
Arizona#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
Arizona(config)#interface serial 0/0
Arizona(config-if)#frame map ip 192.168.5.1 405 broadcast
Arizona(config-if)#frame map ip 192.168.5.2 405 broadcast

Take a look at this: On the Arizona and Alaska routers, both remote IP addresses have been
mapped to the same DLCI number. This is why you could not use Inverse ARP to solve this
whole scenario: It would have detected only the directly connected neighbor—Alabama, in this
case. Because I’m still sitting on the Arizona router, I perform the verification from there:
Arizona#show frame-relay lmi
LMI Statistics for interface Serial0/0 (Frame Relay DTE) LMI TYPE = CISCO
Invalid Unnumbered info 0
Invalid Prot Disc 0
Invalid dummy Call Ref 0
Invalid Msg Type 0
Invalid Status Message 0
Invalid Lock Shift 0
Invalid Information ID 0
Invalid Report IE Len 0
Invalid Report Request 0
Invalid Keep IE Len 0
Num Status Enq. Sent 1336
Num Status msgs Rcvd 1337
Num Update Status Rcvd 0
Num Status Timeouts 2
Last Full Status Req 00:00:23
Last Full Status Rcvd 00:00:23

It looks like the LMI information is being received successfully. Now examine the PVC status
and mappings:
Arizona#show frame-relay pvc
PVC Statistics for interface Serial0/0 (Frame Relay DTE)

Local
Switched
Unused

Active
1
0
0

Inactive
0
0
0

Deleted
0
0
0

Static
0
0
0

DLCI = 405, DLCI USAGE = LOCAL, PVC STATUS = ACTIVE, INTERFACE = Serial0/0
input pkts 0
out bytes 0
out pkts dropped 0
in FECN pkts 0
out BECN pkts 0

output pkts 0
in bytes 0
dropped pkts 0
in pkts dropped 0
out bytes dropped 0
in BECN pkts 0
out FECN pkts 0
in DE pkts 0
out DE pkts 0

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 636

636

Chapter 17: Frame Relay
out bcast pkts 0
out bcast bytes 0
5 minute input rate 0 bits/sec, 0 packets/sec
5 minute output rate 0 bits/sec, 0 packets/sec
pvc create time 00:15:57, last time pvc status changed 00:00:20
Arizona#show frame-relay map
Serial0/0 (up): ip 192.168.5.1 dlci 405(0x195,0x6450), static,
broadcast,
CISCO, status defined, active
Serial0/0 (up): ip 192.168.5.2 dlci 405(0x195,0x6450), static,
broadcast,
CISCO, status defined, active

Based on the output from the show frame-relay pvc and show frame-relay map commands, it looks like DLCI 405 is ACTIVE and statically mapped to both the remote IP
addresses it is able to reach. Because it tests round-trip connectivity, the final ping test verifies
that the rest of the locations are configured correctly as well:
Arizona#ping 192.168.5.1
Type escape sequence to abort.
Sending 5, 100-byte ICMP Echos to 192.168.5.1, timeout is 2 seconds:
!!!!!
Success rate is 100 percent (5/5), round-trip min/avg/max = 56/58/60 ms
Arizona#ping 192.168.5.2
Type escape sequence to abort.
Sending 5, 100-byte ICMP Echos to 192.168.5.2, timeout is 2 seconds:
!!!!!
Success rate is 100 percent (5/5), round-trip min/avg/max = 116/117/124 ms

Take a look at that—successful pings everywhere! However, things are not as peachy as they
may seem initially. Compare those round trip times for the two destinations. When the first
ping was performed from Arizona to Alabama, the average round-trip response time was 58ms.
The second ping went from Arizona to Alaska, and the round-trip response time effectively
doubled, moving up to 117ms! Although the hub and spoke topologies are very cost effective,
they can have devastating effects on delay-sensitive traffic, such as Citrix, Voice over IP, or
Video over IP.
Now that the Frame Relay network is working correctly, it may be tempting to walk away
cheering and feeling quite fantastic about the general state of your life. However, one more
thing needs to be checked. Take a look again at Figure 17.8. Each location has a LAN connection, representing the offices in those locations. Although the Frame Relay network may
be humming along, you still need to check the routing tables to ensure each one of these locations is able to reach the other. Behind the scenes, I’ve configured EIGRP for Autonomous

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 637

637

Configuring Frame Relay

System 100 on each router, sending and receiving advertisements on all interfaces. Look at the
routing table on Alabama first:
Alabama#show ip route
Codes: C - connected, S - static, R - RIP, M - mobile, B - BGP
D - EIGRP, EX - EIGRP external, O - OSPF, IA - OSPF inter area
N1 - OSPF NSSA external type 1, N2 - OSPF NSSA external type 2
E1 - OSPF external type 1, E2 - OSPF external type 2
i - IS-IS, L1 - IS-IS level-1, L2 - IS-IS level-2, ia - IS-IS
* - candidate default, U - per-user static route, o - ODR
P - periodic downloaded static route
Gateway of last resort is not set
172.16.0.0/24 is subnetted, 3 subnets
C
172.16.35.0 is directly connected, FastEthernet2/0
D
172.16.20.0 [90/20537600] via 192.168.5.2, 00:00:35, Serial0/0
D
172.16.15.0 [90/20537600] via 192.168.5.3, 00:00:03, Serial0/0
C
192.168.5.0/24 is directly connected, Serial0/0

Whew! Everything looks good. As you can see, the highlighted output shows the Alabama
router has learned about the networks in Alaska and Arizona just fine. Just to be certain of
things, jump over to Arizona and verify the routing table over there.
Arizona#show ip route
Codes: C - connected, S - static, R - RIP, M - mobile, B - BGP
D - EIGRP, EX - EIGRP external, O - OSPF, IA - OSPF inter area
N1 - OSPF NSSA external type 1, N2 - OSPF NSSA external type 2
E1 - OSPF external type 1, E2 - OSPF external type 2
i - IS-IS, su - IS-IS summary, L1 - IS-IS level-1, L2 - IS-IS level-2
ia - IS-IS inter area, * - candidate default, U - per-user static
o - ODR, P - periodic downloaded static route
Gateway of last resort is not set
172.16.0.0/24 is subnetted, 2 subnets
D
172.16.35.0 [90/2172416] via 192.168.5.1, 00:02:12, Serial0/0
C
172.16.15.0 is directly connected, Ethernet0/0
C
192.168.5.0/24 is directly connected, Serial0/0

Uh-oh. That warm, fuzzy feeling is slipping away. It appears that Arizona has learned about
only the Alabama network, and is not showing Alaska in the routing table. It’s a good idea to
verify the Alaska routing table as well.
Alaska#show ip route
Codes: C - connected, S - static, I - IGRP, R - RIP, M - mobile, B - BGP
D - EIGRP, EX - EIGRP external, O - OSPF, IA - OSPF inter area
N1 - OSPF NSSA external type 1, N2 - OSPF NSSA external type 2
E1 - OSPF external type 1, E2 - OSPF external type 2, E - EGP
i - IS-IS, L1 - IS-IS level-1, L2 - IS-IS level-2, * - default
U - per-user static route, o - ODR
Gateway of last resort is not set
172.16.0.0/24 is subnetted, 2 subnets

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 638

638

Chapter 17: Frame Relay
D
C
C

172.16.35.0 [90/2172416] via 192.168.5.1, 00:03:22, Serial0
172.16.20.0 is directly connected, Ethernet0
192.168.5.0/24 is directly connected, Serial0

Sure enough, Alaska is not learning about the Arizona network either. You have just experienced the split-horizon routing rule taking effect. The Alabama router is acting as the hub of
the network. As it receives incoming routing updates on its Serial 0 interface from the Alaska
and Arizona routers, the split-horizon rule jumps in and restricts the Alabama router’s capability to send those updates back out of the interface on which it was received. There are two
ways to solve this problem. First, you could move from a multipoint configuration to a pointto-point configuration (the safer, more preferred method), or disable the split-horizon routing
rule completely (opening yourself up to the potential of routing loops). Remember, these routing rules have been put in place for a reason. Disabling them is like skydiving without a backup parachute. Most of the time, you should be fine, but just wait until that unusual situation.
There may be very little chance of a safe landing.
Because this is a multipoint configuration, you can go ahead and disable the split-horizon features for now. The point-to-point solution is explained in just a moment. You need to be careful to disable split-horizon only at the key points of a network. If you disable it everywhere,
you will most certainly end up with routing loops. In this case, you need to disable it at the
network hub: Alabama. If you turn it off on this router, the routing updates will be received on
the Serial 0 interface and sent right back out the same interface, allowing Arizona and Alaska
to hear about each other. Here’s how it’s done:
Alabama#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
Alabama(config)#interface serial 0/0
Alabama(config-if)#no ip split-horizon ?
eigrp Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (EIGRP)
<cr>
Alabama(config-if)#no ip split-horizon eigrp ?
<1-65535> Autonomous system number
Alabama(config-if)#no ip split-horizon eigrp 100
*Mar 1 00:45:29.507: %DUAL-5-NBRCHANGE: IP-EIGRP(0) 100: Neighbor
➥192.168.5.3 (Serial0/0) is down: split horizon changed
*Mar 1 00:45:29.507: destroy peer: 192.168.5.3
*Mar 1 00:45:29.507: %DUAL-5-NBRCHANGE: IP-EIGRP(0) 100: Neighbor
➥192.168.5.2 (Serial0/0) is down: split horizon changed
*Mar 1 00:45:29.507: destroy peer: 192.168.5.2
Alabama(config-if)#
*Mar 1 00:46:19.647: %DUAL-5-NBRCHANGE: IP-EIGRP(0) 100: Neighbor
➥192.168.5.2 (Serial0/0) is up: new adjacency
*Mar 1 00:46:38.111: %DUAL-5-NBRCHANGE: IP-EIGRP(0) 100: Neighbor
➥192.168.5.3 (Serial0/0) is up: new adjacency

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 639

639

Configuring Frame Relay

You can see that turning off split-horizon for the EIGRP routing system caused the neighbors
to reset themselves because of the configuration change. Now that they’ve come back up, you
can verify the Alaska and Arizona routing tables:
Alaska#show ip route
Codes: C - connected, S - static, I - IGRP, R - RIP, M - mobile, B - BGP
D - EIGRP, EX - EIGRP external, O - OSPF, IA - OSPF inter area
N1 - OSPF NSSA external type 1, N2 - OSPF NSSA external type 2
E1 - OSPF external type 1, E2 - OSPF external type 2, E - EGP
i - IS-IS, L1 - IS-IS level-1, L2 - IS-IS level-2, * - default
U - per-user static route, o - ODR
Gateway of last resort is not set
172.16.0.0/24 is subnetted, 3 subnets
D
172.16.35.0 [90/2172416] via 192.168.5.1, 00:02:12, Serial0
C
172.16.20.0 is directly connected, Ethernet0
D
172.16.15.0 [90/21049600] via 192.168.5.1, 00:02:12, Serial0
C
192.168.5.0/24 is directly connected, Serial0
Arizona#show ip route
Codes: C - connected, S - static, R - RIP, M - mobile, B - BGP
D - EIGRP, EX - EIGRP external, O - OSPF, IA - OSPF inter area
N1 - OSPF NSSA external type 1, N2 - OSPF NSSA external type 2
E1 - OSPF external type 1, E2 - OSPF external type 2
i - IS-IS, su - IS-IS summary, L1 - IS-IS level-1, L2 - IS-IS level-2
ia - IS-IS inter area, * - candidate default, U - per-user static
o - ODR, P - periodic downloaded static route
Gateway of last resort is not set
172.16.0.0/24 is subnetted, 3 subnets
D
172.16.35.0 [90/2172416] via 192.168.5.1, 00:02:57, Serial0/0
D
172.16.20.0 [90/21049600] via 192.168.5.1, 00:02:33, Serial0/0
C
172.16.15.0 is directly connected, Ethernet0/0
C
192.168.5.0/24 is directly connected, Serial0/0

Excellent! The remote sites are now seeing each other’s LAN connections in the routing table.
The multipoint Frame Relay configuration is complete.

Configuring Frame Relay That Uses Point-to-Point
Interfaces
I’m so excited! All this configuration has led up to this point: my highly suggested and preferred Frame Relay configuration, point-to-point subinterfaces. As you just saw, configuring
Frame Relay using multipoint connections can be confusing because you have multiple,
non–directly connected sites tied together through a single physical interface. In addition, it
can cause some technical problems, primarily with routing protocols. Now, enter point-topoint subinterfaces into the configuration and these problems slowly melt away.

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 640

640

Chapter 17: Frame Relay

The configuration of point-to-point subinterfaces does require a little more work than multipoint because it requires you to create a logical subinterface for each PVC coming out of your
locations. To explain this, let me introduce the next scenario to be configured. It involves setting up a network very similar to the previous, multipoint configuration. This time, a router
known as Salmon will be the hub. BlueGill and Trout will act as the spokes. Take a look at the
logical diagram in Figure 17.10.

Fa2/0
172.16.35.1/24

Frame Relay
Service Provider

S0/0.503 10.5.5.1/24

305

E0
172.16.20.1/24

S0.305 10.5.5.2/24
503

Salmon S0/0.504 10.6.6.1/24

BlueGill

504

Trout

405
S0/0.405 10.6.6.2/24

E0/0
172.16.15.1/24

FIGURE 17.10

Point-to-point Frame Relay configuration.

Can you see the difference between the point-to-point and multipoint configurations at the
hub router? Instead of having a single IP address and interface connected to the Frame Relay
cloud, you now have two logical subinterfaces connected to the Frame Relay cloud:
Serial0/0.503 and Serial0/0.504. Each one of these subinterfaces is on its own subnet. Now,
the split-horizon problems from before are automatically solved through the creation of these
subinterfaces. When the router receives a routing update on Serial0/0.503, it has no problem
sending it out Serial0/0.504, and vice versa. Now you may argue that it is still sending it out
the same physical interface, which is true. However, the router doesn’t see it this way. After
you create the two subinterfaces, the router sees them as two completely independent connections. The only disadvantage of a point-to-point configuration is that you must configure
a separate subnet for each PVC, whereas the multipoint allowed all routers to share a common subnet.
With that foundation in place, let’s jump straight into the configuration and fill in the gaps as
you go. I’m going to begin with the hub of the network: the great Salmon router. First, familiarize yourself with the surroundings:
Salmon#show ip interface brief
Interface
IP-Address

OK? Method Status

Protocol

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 641

641

Configuring Frame Relay
Serial0/0
Serial0/1
Serial0/2
Serial0/3
Ethernet1/0
FastEthernet2/0

unassigned
unassigned
unassigned
unassigned
unassigned
172.16.35.1

YES manual up
up
YES NVRAM administratively down down
YES NVRAM administratively down down
YES NVRAM administratively down down
YES NVRAM administratively down down
YES NVRAM up
up

Good—the Serial0/0 interface has no IP configuration. Let’s begin:
Salmon#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
Salmon(config)#interface serial 0/0
Salmon(config-if)#encapsulation frame-relay
Salmon(config-if)#exit
Salmon(config)#
*Mar 1 02:06:37.787: %LINEPROTO-5-UPDOWN: Line protocol on
➥Interface Serial0/0, changed state to up

The first move is to enable Frame Relay encapsulation on the physical interface. Notice that
the line protocol immediately comes online. At this point, you are finished with the physical
interface configuration. Now you can move to the subinterfaces.
Salmon(config)#interface serial 0/0.?
<0-4294967295> Serial interface number
Salmon(config)#interface serial 0/0.503 ?
multipoint
Treat as a multipoint link
point-to-point Treat as a point-to-point link
Salmon(config)#interface serial 0/0.503 point-to-point
Salmon(config-subif)#

We’ve just created the subinterface Serial0/0.503 in a point-to-point configuration, as shown
in Figure 17.9. The fact that the subinterface number matches the local DLCI used for the
connection holds no functional significance whatsoever. It is just a common practice to have
your subinterface number match the DLCI number for administrative identification purposes. Now that you are in the subinterface configuration mode, you can set up the logical parameters. This will take just two settings:
Salmon(config-subif)#ip address 10.5.5.1 255.255.255.0
Salmon(config-subif)#frame-relay interface-dlci 503
Salmon(config-fr-dlci)#exit
Salmon(config-subif)#exit
Salmon(config)#

The two commands necessary assigned the IP address and the local DLCI number to the
subinterface. No complex mappings. No broadcast keywords. Just an IP address and DLCI

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 642

642

Chapter 17: Frame Relay

number. Simple is good. Now add the second subinterface to the configuration and verify how
everything looks:
Salmon(config)#interface serial 0/0.504 point-to-point
Salmon(config-subif)#ip address 10.6.6.1 255.255.255.0
Salmon(config-subif)#frame-relay interface-dlci 504
Salmon(config-fr-dlci)#end
Salmon#
*Mar 1 02:14:31.287: %SYS-5-CONFIG_I: Configured from console by console
Salmon#show ip interface brief
Interface
IP-Address
OK? Method Status
Protocol
Serial0/0
unassigned
YES manual up
up
Serial0/0.503
10.5.5.1
YES manual up
up
Serial0/0.504
10.6.6.1
YES manual up
up
Serial0/1
unassigned
YES NVRAM administratively down down
Serial0/2
unassigned
YES NVRAM administratively down down
Serial0/3
unassigned
YES NVRAM administratively down down
Ethernet1/0
unassigned
YES NVRAM administratively down down
FastEthernet2/0
172.16.35.1
YES NVRAM up
up

Have you ever had a fresh chocolate chip cookie, pulled right out of the oven, cooked to a
golden crisp that literally melts in your mouth? That’s the only thing that might be better than
a configuration like this. Look at that!!! You have two logical subinterfaces configured perfectly
on their own subnets. The router also knows what DLCI number it is able to use to reach the
other side of the connection. One quick note: Have you been noticing how the router moves
you into a DLCI configuration mode after you enter the frame-relay interface-dlci command? When you get into the advanced Frame Relay configurations, you will be able to assign
certain traffic shaping parameters to each one of those connections that tell the router how fast
it should send to each site, among many other things. That’s for the CCNP certification. For
now, go ahead and bring up the two spoke routers:
BlueGill#show ip interface brief
Interface
IP-Address
OK? Method Status
Protocol
Ethernet0
172.16.20.1
YES NVRAM up
up
Ethernet1
unassigned
YES unset administratively down down
Serial0
unassigned
YES NVRAM up
down
Serial1
unassigned
YES unset administratively down down
BlueGill#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
BlueGill(config)#interface serial 0
BlueGill(config-if)#encapsulation frame-relay
*Mar 1 02:19:32.011: %LINEPROTO-5-UPDOWN: Line protocol on
➥Interface Serial0, changed state to up
BlueGill(config-if)#exit
BlueGill(config)#interface serial 0.305 point-to-point
BlueGill(config-subif)#ip address 10.5.5.2 255.255.255.0
BlueGill(config-subif)#frame-relay interface-dlci 305
02:20:18: %FR-5-DLCICHANGE: Interface Serial0 - DLCI 305 state

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 643

643

Configuring Frame Relay
➥changed to ACTIVE
BlueGill(config-fr-dlci)#^Z
BlueGill#
Trout#show ip interface brief
Interface
IP-Address
OK? Method Status
Protocol
Ethernet0/0
172.16.15.1
YES NVRAM up
up
Serial0/0
unassigned
YES NVRAM up
down
Trout#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
Trout(config)#interface serial 0/0
Trout(config-if)#encapsulation frame-relay
*Mar 1 02:29:36.081: %LINEPROTO-5-UPDOWN: Line protocol on Interface
➥Serial0/0, changed state to up
Trout(config-if)#exit
Trout(config)#interface serial 0/0.405 point-to-point
Trout(config-subif)#ip address 10.6.6.2 255.255.255.0
Trout(config-subif)#frame-relay interface-dlci 405
02:33:18: %FR-5-DLCICHANGE: Interface Serial0/0 - DLCI 405 state
➥changed to ACTIVE
Trout(config-fr-dlci)#^Z
Trout#

Did you see those DLCIs go ACTIVE? That’s a really good sign that things are working just
fine. Behind the scenes, I also configured the EIGRP process on all three routers to include
all attached interfaces. Because I’m currently connected to the Trout router, I’ll verify everything is working okay from here:
Trout#ping 10.6.6.1
Type escape sequence to abort.
Sending 5, 100-byte ICMP Echos to 10.6.6.1, timeout is 2 seconds:
!!!!!
Success rate is 100 percent (5/5), round-trip min/avg/max = 56/58/60 ms
Trout#ping 10.5.5.2
Type escape sequence to abort.
Sending 5, 100-byte ICMP Echos to 10.5.5.2, timeout is 2 seconds:
!!!!!
Success rate is 100 percent (5/5), round-trip min/avg/max = 116/116/117 ms
Trout#show ip route
Codes: C - connected, S - static, R - RIP, M - mobile, B - BGP
D - EIGRP, EX - EIGRP external, O - OSPF, IA - OSPF inter area
N1 - OSPF NSSA external type 1, N2 - OSPF NSSA external type 2
E1 - OSPF external type 1, E2 - OSPF external type 2
i - IS-IS, su - IS-IS summary, L1 - IS-IS level-1, L2 - IS-IS level-2
ia - IS-IS inter area, * - candidate default, U - per-user static
o - ODR, P - periodic downloaded static route

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 644

644

Chapter 17: Frame Relay
Gateway of last resort is not set
172.16.0.0/24 is subnetted, 3 subnets
D
172.16.35.0 [90/2172416] via 10.6.6.1, 00:05:21, Serial0/0.405
D
172.16.20.0 [90/21049600] via 10.6.6.1, 00:05:21, Serial0/0.405
C
172.16.15.0 is directly connected, Ethernet0/0
10.0.0.0/24 is subnetted, 2 subnets
C
10.6.6.0 is directly connected, Serial0/0.405
D
10.5.5.0 [90/21024000] via 10.6.6.1, 00:05:21, Serial0/0.405

Sweet! The first ping tested connectivity from the Trout router to the Salmon router. The second ping tested connectivity from the Trout router to the BlueGill router. Finally, by examining the routing table, you can see that the Trout router has already learned about the LANs
behind Trout and BlueGill, and has even learned about the PVC between Salmon and BlueGill
(this is the last bolded entry in the routing table). This is a key feature of the point-to-point
configuration. Because every PVC is seen as its own subnet, routing protocols enable your
routers to learn about those connections without requiring the messy maps of multipoint configurations. Just like that, you have a point-to-point Frame Relay configuration.

Verifying Frame Relay
As you have gone through the three different configurations of Frame Relay, you have really
seen the Frame Relay verification commands in action. However, it’s time for a formal introduction of the three major commands you use when ensuring all is well with your Frame Relay
configuration.

show frame-relay lmi
This command enables you to verify your communication with the Frame Relay service
provider.
Lilo#show frame-relay lmi
LMI Statistics for interface Serial0/0 (Frame Relay DTE) LMI TYPE = CISCO
Invalid Unnumbered info 0
Invalid Prot Disc 0
Invalid dummy Call Ref 0
Invalid Msg Type 0
Invalid Status Message 0
Invalid Lock Shift 0
Invalid Information ID 0
Invalid Report IE Len 0
Invalid Report Request 0
Invalid Keep IE Len 0
Num Status Enq. Sent 258
Num Status msgs Rcvd 259
Num Update Status Rcvd 0
Num Status Timeouts 0
Last Full Status Req 00:00:07
Last Full Status Rcvd 00:00:07

Notice that the Num Status Enq. Sent and Num Status msgs Rcvd fields are relatively the
same. This indicates that your communication with the service provider is excellent.

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 645

645

Troubleshooting Frame Relay

show frame-relay pvc
This command enables you to see, in detail, all the PVC connections your router has established through the cloud.
Stitch#show frame-relay pvc
PVC Statistics for interface Serial0/0 (Frame Relay DTE)
Active
Inactive
Deleted
Static
Local
1
0
0
0
Switched
0
0
0
0
Unused
0
0
0
0
DLCI = 405, DLCI USAGE = LOCAL, PVC STATUS = ACTIVE, INTERFACE =
➥Serial0/0.405
input pkts 643
output pkts 638
in bytes 54196
out bytes 51074
dropped pkts 0
in pkts dropped 0
out pkts dropped 0
out bytes dropped 0
in FECN pkts 0
in BECN pkts 0
out FECN pkts 0
out BECN pkts 0
in DE pkts 0
out DE pkts 0
out bcast pkts 624
out bcast bytes 49746
5 minute input rate 0 bits/sec, 0 packets/sec
5 minute output rate 0 bits/sec, 0 packets/sec
pvc create time 00:45:12, last time pvc status changed 00:45:12

The main information you’ll grab from this output is the status of the circuit (shown here as
ACTIVE) and the DLCI number (shown here as 405). It’s sometimes nice to see the packet
statistics for the PVCs as well to ensure traffic is passing between your locations.

show frame-relay map
This command is my favorite command to verify my Frame Relay circuits.
Stitch#show frame-relay map
Serial0/0.405 (up): point-to-point dlci, dlci 405(0x195,0x6450), broadcast
status defined, active

This is the most concise way of finding out your DLCI number and the state of the circuit,
without being overwhelmed with all the statistics for the line.

Troubleshooting Frame Relay
Alas, when all is not well with your Frame Relay connections, the debug commands come to
the rescue. Thankfully, for most troubleshooting scenarios, there is just one debug command
that can expose the problem. Before you get into the debug, though, you’ll quickly see that the

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 646

646

Chapter 17: Frame Relay

standard show commands from the verification section can give quite a bit of useful information. Take a look:
Stitch#show frame-relay map
Serial0/0.407 (down): point-to-point dlci, dlci 407(0x197,0x6470), broadcast
status deleted
Serial0/0.405 (up): point-to-point dlci, dlci 405(0x195,0x6450), broadcast
status defined, active
Serial0/0.406 (down): point-to-point dlci, dlci 406(0x196,0x6460), broadcast
status defined, inactive

Just a simple show frame-relay map command can point you in the initial direction for troubleshooting the circuit. As you can see from the output, there are three different DLCI numbers in three different activity states. First up is DLCI 407, which is in a status of DELETED.
This means that the router is attempting to communicate with the service provider through
DLCI 407, but the service provider has no idea what the router is talking about. They have no
DLCI 407 defined. In this case, the configuration problem is most likely on your own router.
Typing the DLCI number incorrectly is one likely cause. Otherwise, the service provider
dropped the ball and did not accurately set up the connections. The second DLCI in the list
is DLCI 405, which is in a status of ACTIVE. This is a good circuit, going through to the
other end of the connection. The final DLCI in the list is DLCI 406, which is in a status of
INACTIVE. This means that the end of the connection is configured, and the service provider
recognizes the DLCI you are attempting to use. The other end of the connection is where the
problem lies. They have either configured an incorrect DLCI or have not configured the
interface at all.
Just from this initial output, you can figure out a direction or a location to begin your troubleshooting efforts. Now comes the lower-level debug troubleshooting.
Salmon#debug frame-relay lmi
Frame Relay LMI debugging is on
Displaying all Frame Relay LMI data
*Mar 1 00:05:07.215: Serial0/0(out): StEnq, myseq 1, yourseen 0, DTE down
*Mar 1 00:05:07.215: datagramstart = 0x1DA2F74, datagramsize = 14
*Mar 1 00:05:07.215: FR encap = 0x00010308
*Mar 1 00:05:07.215: 00 75 95 01 01 01 03 02 01 00
*Mar 1 00:05:17.215: Serial0/0(out): StEnq, myseq 2, yourseen 0, DTE down
*Mar 1 00:05:17.215: datagramstart = 0x1C01254, datagramsize = 14
*Mar 1 00:05:17.215: FR encap = 0x00010308
*Mar 1 00:05:17.215: 00 75 95 01 01 00 03 02 02 00
*Mar 1 00:05:27.215: Serial0/0(out): StEnq, myseq 3, yourseen 0, DTE down
*Mar 1 00:05:27.215: datagramstart = 0x1DA21B4, datagramsize = 14
*Mar 1 00:05:27.215: FR encap = 0x00010308
*Mar 1 00:05:27.215: 00 75 95 01 01 00 03 02 03 00
*Mar 1 00:05:37.215: Serial0/0(out): StEnq, myseq 4, yourseen 0, DTE down
*Mar 1 00:05:37.215: datagramstart = 0x1C00494, datagramsize = 14
*Mar 1 00:05:37.215: FR encap = 0x00010308
*Mar 1 00:05:37.215: 00 75 95 01 01 00 03 02 04 00

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 647

647

Troubleshooting Frame Relay

The most useful debug is typically the debug frame-relay lmi because this focuses on your
direct communication with the service provider. At first, this output looks quite cryptic, but
take a look at the highlighted information. You can see the sequence numbers increasing on
your end (that’s the myseq field), but the service provider doesn’t see this. This most likely indicates that the Frame Relay LMI language is mismatched between you and the service provider.
Here’s how to fix the problem:
Salmon#show frame-relay lmi
LMI Statistics for interface Serial0/0 (Frame Relay DTE) LMI TYPE = ANSI
Invalid Unnumbered info 0
Invalid Prot Disc 0
Invalid dummy Call Ref 0
Invalid Msg Type 0
Invalid Status Message 0
Invalid Lock Shift 0
Invalid Information ID 0
Invalid Report IE Len 0
Invalid Report Request 0
Invalid Keep IE Len 0
Num Status Enq. Sent 49
Num Status msgs Rcvd 14
Num Update Status Rcvd 0
Num Status Timeouts 34
Salmon#configure terminal
Enter configuration commands, one per line. End with CNTL/Z.
Salmon(config)#interface serial 0/0
Salmon(config-if)#
*Mar 1 00:08:47.215: Serial0/0(out): StEnq, myseq 23, yourseen 0, DTE down
*Mar 1 00:08:47.215: datagramstart = 0x1C019D4, datagramsize = 14
*Mar 1 00:08:47.215: FR encap = 0x00010308
*Mar 1 00:08:47.215: 00 75 95 01 01 00 03 02 17 00
*Mar 1 00:08:47.215:
Salmon(config-if)#frame lmi-type cisco
*Mar 1 00:08:57.215: Serial0/0(out): StEnq, myseq 1, yourseen 0, DTE down
*Mar 1 00:08:57.215: datagramstart = 0x1DA2BB4, datagramsize = 13
*Mar 1 00:08:57.215: FR encap = 0xFCF10309
*Mar 1 00:08:57.215: 00 75 01 01 00 03 02 01 00
*Mar 1 00:08:57.227: Serial0/0(in): Status, myseq 1
*Mar 1 00:08:57.227: RT IE 1, length 1, type 0
*Mar 1 00:08:57.227: KA IE 3, length 2, yourseq 1 , myseq 1
*Mar 1 00:08:57.227: PVC IE 0x7 , length 0x6 , dlci 503, status 0x0 , bw 0
*Mar 1 00:08:57.227: PVC IE 0x7 , length 0x6 , dlci 504, status 0x0 , bw 0
*Mar 1 00:09:07.215: Serial0/0(out): StEnq, myseq 2, yourseen 1, DTE down
*Mar 1 00:09:07.215: datagramstart = 0x1DA22F4, datagramsize = 13
*Mar 1 00:09:07.215: FR encap = 0xFCF10309
*Mar 1 00:09:07.215: 00 75 01 01 01 03 02 02 01
*Mar 1 00:09:07.235: Serial0/0(in): Status, myseq 2
*Mar 1 00:09:07.235: RT IE 1, length 1, type 0
*Mar 1 00:09:07.235: KA IE 3, length 2, yourseq 2 , myseq 2
*Mar 1 00:09:07.235: PVC IE 0x7 , length 0x6 , dlci 503, status 0x0 , bw 0
*Mar 1 00:09:07.235: PVC IE 0x7 , length 0x6 , dlci 504, status 0x0 , bw 0

Sure enough, you saw that the LMI type was hard-coded as ANSI. After it was changed over
to Cisco, the debug showed the sequence numbers matching up between your router and the

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 648

648

Chapter 17: Frame Relay

service provider. Right after the sequence number synchronization, the service provider’s
router delivers the DLCI information to your router. This is where it pays to know the status
codes. These are not covered on the CCNA exam, but are tested on when you get into the
CCNP level exams:
Status 0x0 = INACTIVE
Status 0x2 = ACTIVE
Status 0x4 = DELETED
In this case, you can see that both DLCI 503 and 504 are marked as INACTIVE.
Most of the Frame Relay troubleshooting comes from a misconfiguration of the Frame Relay
DLCI. It’s very easy to map the wrong DLCI to the wrong IP address because Frame Relay
uses a very different addressing perspective than most other networking technologies.
Understanding the Frame Relay circuit states can really help in isolating the problem quickly.

20_0789735199_CH17.qxd

11/30/05

12:49 PM

Page 649

649

Chapter Summary

Chapter Summary
This chapter has taken you from the basics of Frame Relay into a fairly complex configuration
using subinterfaces. The steepest part of the learning curve in the Frame Relay world is in trying to understand the terminology. Frame Relay uses a new set of Layer 2 addresses known as
DLCIs. These are your logical addresses, which enable you to communicate with remote
devices over the Frame Relay cloud. Unlike typical addressing, DLCIs work through a localized system—that is, you leave on a local DLCI to reach a remote destination over a PVC.
This PVC is established for you by a service provider (after you have paid an excessive amount
of money) and is one of the primary criteria that determine your monthly cost for the line. The
other cost-affecting criterion is the CIR you purchase for each circuit. This is the speed that
the service provider commits to give you for each PVC you purchase. Many times, you will be
able to burst above this speed if extra bandwidth is available.
After you understand the terminology of Frame Relay, you have three different configuration
options. For simple network designs, you can let the Inverse ARP system take care of the
Frame Relay setup for you. If you just enable Frame Relay encapsulation on your Serial interface, the router can configure itself. It does this by using LMI signaling to receive all its DLCI
information from the service provider. The router can then use Inverse ARP to discover the
remote devices. As your network becomes more advanced and uses multiple virtual circuits,
you can rely on a multipoint or point-to-point configuration. The advantage of multipoint is
that all the routers connected to the Frame Relay cloud can share a common subnet. The
major problem with this configuration comes from the routing loop prevention mechanism
split-horizon. This prevents a router from sending a routing update out the same interface as
that over which it was received. Coming to the rescue are point-to-point subinterfaces. These
enable you to statically assign a DLCI number to a dedicated subinterface. Because each PVC
has its own subinterface, there are no problems with split-horizon.

Key Terms
. virtual circuit

. local access rate/line speed

. permanent virtual circuit (PVC)

. Committed Information Rate (CIR)

. switched virtual circuit (SVC)

. Backwards Explicit Congestion

. hub and spoke design
. partial mesh design
. full mesh design
. Local Management Interface (LMI)
. Data Link Connection Identifier

(DLCI)

Notification (BECN)
. Forwards Explicit Congestion

Notification (FECN)
. Discard Eligible (De)
. Non-Broadcast Multi-Access (NBMA)
. split-horizon

