1)

1. Briefly list the communication application protocols that are used at the Application layer of the
OSI model and what service they provide.
2. Describe how information is passed through the layers of the OSI model.
3. Define Positive Acknowledgments and Retransmission (PAR).
4. Describe the steps involved in a three-way handshake.
5. List the differences between TCP and UDP.
6. List the key functionalities of the Access layer of the Cisco hierarchical model.
7. List the key functionalities of the Distribution layer of the Cisco hierarchical model.
8. List the key functionalities of the Core layer of the Cisco hierarchical model.


2)
5. Describe the pinout of a straight-through cable.
6. Describe the pinout of a cross-over cable.

3)
1. Define token-passing.
2. List the characteristics of a token ring network.
3. List the characteristics of an FDDI network.
4. Define unicast, multicast, and broadcast.
5. Describe CSMA/CD.
6. What are the primary tasks performed by both bridges and switches?
7. Describe half- and full-duplex.
8. Define microsegmentation.

4)
1. Convert binary 00101010 00111111 11011100 11111111 to decimal format.
2. Convert decimal 150.193.6.100 to binary format.
3. What is hexadecimal 0x5F in decimal format?
4. Perform Boolean AND to define the Network ID of IP address 200.62.183.26 255.255.255.0.
5. Given the IP address 32.116.5.0 and subnet mask 255.255.255.0, what is the Network ID?
6. Given the IP address 213.50.201.0 and subnet mask 255.255.255.0, what is the Broadcast IP?
7. What is the valid IP range for 220.9.3.0/24?
8. Define the zero subnet and broadcast subnet rules.
9. Describe the process of routing.
10. List the functions performed by a router or Layer 3 switch.

5)
1. Describe a GBIC.
2. List the WAN interfaces and their descriptions.
3. Define DCE and DTE.
4. What is the Cisco IOS?
5. Define PoE.

6)
1. What is the effect of changing the configuration register?
2. Why would a Cisco administrator use boot system commands?
3. What are the memory components in a router and what purpose do they have in the booting
process?
4. What cabling and terminal settings are required for out-of-band management?
5. What is the significance of having User EXEC mode in addition to Privileged EXEC mode?

7)
1. What is the purpose of assigning an IP address and a default gateway to a Layer 2

switch?
2. What is the purpose of configuring passwords on the line configurations?
3. What are the available keywords for the copy command?
4. How is CDP useful to a Cisco administrator?
5. What ICMP protocol commands can help you determine whether you have IP connec-

tivity to a device?
6. What is the significance of x and y in the output of the show interfaces stats output:

x/line protocol is y?

8)
Review Questions
1. What do switches do when a frame with a new source and destination MAC address

are received?
2. What is the purpose of Spanning-Tree protocol?
3. Why would you use PortFast with BPDU Guard?
4. How can you restrict the number of MAC addresses on a port?
5. When is it appropriate to run a switch interface in half-duplex versus full-duplex?

9)
1. What are the characteristics of VLANs?
2. What are trunks and how do they work?
3. What is the purpose of VTP?
4. What are the characteristics of the three VTP modes?
5. Why is router-on-a-stick sometimes necessary in switched environments?

10)
1. What are the Layer 2 and Layer 3 characteristics of a packet destined for a network on

a remote segment?
2. Why would you use a static route versus a routing protocol?
3. What are the characteristics of distance vector routing protocols?
4. What are the characteristics of link-state routing protocols?
5. What is the difference between classful and classless routing protocols?

11)
1. What are the mitigation methods distance vector routing protocols use to avoid rout-

ing loops?
2. What are the characteristics of RIP?
3. What additional features are present in RIPv2 that are not present in RIP?
4. What are the characteristics of IGRP?
5. What are the fundamental configuration steps for RIP and IGRP?

12)
1. What is the OSPF Router ID and how is it determined?
2. What is the significance of a Designated Router and what are the surrounding circumstances that
are necessary for a router to become a DR?
3. What is the purpose of an OSPF area?
4. How does the DUAL algorithm use the contents of the topology table to ensure rapid convergence?
5. What are the basic configuration steps for using OSPF and EIGRP routing protocols?

13)
1. Your manager at the office asks you to explain the concept behind a standard access list. Using
simple terms, explain these concepts.
2. It is critical that an access list is applied correctly when it is used on a router for security purposes. What mantra dictates the rules behind access list application?
3. Explain how a router processes an access list filtering traffic inbound from the Internet.
4. What filtering options does an extended access list give you that are not supplied by a standard
access list?
5. One of the criteria an extended access list allows you to use in your filtering options is the source
and destination port number. What is the difference between these? Why are two ports necessary
for all communication?

14)  (this should be 15   check later)
1. List the three categories of WAN connections.
2. You are installing a new serial WAN connection into your offices in Tucson, Arizona. The service
has already terminated their end of the connection at the premises and provided you with a
CSU/DSU device. What physical connections should you use on your Cisco router?
3. What four features are negotiated by PPP’s LCP?
4. What is the function of PPP’s Network Control Protocol?
5. PPP has the capability to use two different compression algorithms. What are they? What is the
effect of these algorithms on your router? Why would you choose to use one algorithm over the
other?

15)
1. ISDN connections comprise B-channels and D-channels. Explain the difference between these
channels.
2. What are the two different types of ISDN BRI interfaces you can purchase for your router? In what
circumstance would you use each?
3. You are troubleshooting the ISDN communication between your router and the service provider.
What debug command would key in on this communication? In addition, what debug command
would you use if you were troubleshooting the end-to-end connectivity between two ISDN
routers?
4. Configuring dial-on-demand routing (DDR) on a Cisco router can be a complex processes.
Recount the general steps to follow when performing this configuration.
5. When would you choose to use a dialer profile configuration with ISDN?

16)
1. There are three virtual circuit design strategies for a Frame Relay cloud. Explain what these are and
the advantages and disadvantages associated with each.
2. Write a brief definition for the following terms:
. Local Management Interface
. Data Link Connection Identifier
. Local Access Rate
. Committed Information Rate
3. When you connect a router to a Frame Relay network, the service provider transmits DLCI information to your router via LMI. How does the router then find the Layer 3 address to associate with
the circuit?
4. When connecting a router to a Frame Relay network with multiple destinations, split-horizon issues
can occur. Explain why this is and the two methods you could use to fix these issues.
5. You are troubleshooting a Frame Relay network. It appears that your router is not receiving any
DLCI information. What command(s) would you use to begin troubleshooting this problem and
why?

17)






